STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
SPECIAL MEETING of the Faculty Senate and Full Faculty
Friday, April 3, 2020
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location Zoom
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

Roster of Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Christa Devirgilio (Secretary/Treasurer), Maureen
Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At Large Rep to the EC),
Bonnie Eannone (Professional), John Estes (Senator At Large), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Curtis Holland (SY),
Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Do
Young Park (Math/CIS), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez (Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Blidi Stemm (CE),
Christos Nostos (BS), Lina Gillic (EE), Ashley Alvarado (SGA) , Jillian Nissen (BS), Erin Toolis (PY), Runi
Mukherji (University Senator Alternate), Fred Fleischer (VA), Sara Williamson, Roger Mayer (AC), Laura
Anker (FY), Svetlana Jovic (PY Alternate), Lee Blackstone (SY), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Edslav Manetovic
(LEC), Frank Sanacory (CAP Alternate)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Duncan Quarless (Acting Provost), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB),
Frank Pizzardi (VP Enrollment), Amanda Frisken (Acting Dean SAS), Diana Sukhram (Acting Dean SOE)
Claudia Marin Andrade (Dean of Students)
Visitors: Jacob Heller, Patrick Cadet, Anthony Barbera, Rafat Sada, Karl Grossman, Sanja Cale, Ashley
Lien, Matt Lippert, Shalei Simms, Jermaine Archer, Lillian Park, Gary Levanto, , Martha Livingston, Ozgur
Akgun, Lisa Whitten, Steve Siena, Kalief Metellus
Roster of Senators Absent: Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen
O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH), Helidon
Gjergji (Senator At Large), Jingyi Song (HP)

MINUTES

AGENDA
0. Zoom Room Open: Tech check, Say hello on chat on arrival. 12:15 p.m.

I. Call to Order 12:30 p.m.
II. Approval of Minutes for February 21, 2020
•

5 minutes (end 12:35)

Minutes were approved as submitted

III. Chair’s Report

5 minutes (end 12:40)

Chair’s Report:
• The President will be temporarily relaxing the 2.0 Dorm Policy.
• The Office of the President will be sending out an announcement later today about the work of
the Army Corps of Engineers.
• The Office of the President is working intensively with New York State and the Corps of
Engineers.
Presidential Search Update
[Based on email from the College Council & Search Committee Chair Mili Makhijani.]
Key points:
• “a final draft of the advertisement and prospectus (used to recruit prospective candidates)” has
been sent to the Chancellor’s office for approval.
• Once the advertisement and propectus have been approved the search firm will begin recruiting
efforts.
• “we are making every effort to stay on track with the presidential search timeline currently in
place, please be advised that the ongoing medical crisis will likely require a four to six
week extension of the timeline.”
• “Rest assured that I plan on keeping everyone apprised of the status of the search as we
continue on this unprecedented journey together”
Email text from the Chair:
“While I am hopeful that we will return to some semblance of normalcy once we get a handle on
the "curve" of new infections, I am just not sure when that will be. In the meantime, Lillian
Colella and I have been communicating remotely on nearly a daily basis with the Search Firm
regarding the presidential search to keep things moving. To that end, a final draft of the
advertisement and prospectus (used to recruit prospective candidates) will be provided to the
Chancellor's Office by the end of the day tomorrow. Once approved, the Search Firm will begin
its recruitment efforts. While we are making every effort to stay on track with the presidential
search timeline currently in place, please be advised that the ongoing medical crisis will likely
require a four to six week extension of the timeline. Rest assured that I plan on keeping
everyone apprised of the status of the search as we continue on this unprecedented journey
together (well, not actually "together" per se).”
IV. President’s Report
•

15 minutes (end 12:55)

President was not available

V. Provost’s Report

15 minutes (end 1:10)

•

•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•
•

I want to first in the way of a Middle States update, thank all the Middle States working groups as
they continue their work through what is this covid 19 pandemic. And that includes some draft
chapter reports that have recently been submitted to the Middle States co chairs so I extremely
grateful that people continue to get that work done.
We are also getting used to this new format of teaching online and getting students the support
and services that they need.
I just wanted to mention to everyone that your academic department Secretary should have
mobile soft phone solutions that now essentially forward their campus extensions to those
mobile soft phones. So they can pick up the phone real time wherever they are in their remote
spaces.
had a really good response, as I understand it, to the workshops for both Blackboard and Ms
teams.
There was a really good response, as I understand it, to the workshops for both Blackboard and
Ms teams.
I am deeply grateful For what has been a really good response from the faculty in to what is this
emergency response for instruction. There's some information; I think, about Microsoft Teams
training that is planned for next week. You'll get that from Andy as he sends out my report.
I want to talk briefly about Well, maybe not so briefly, we'll find out in terms of your questions
about the credit, no credit grading policy that is been temporarily put in place. As many of you
know, it's a pass fail policy that we've had on the record for a long time. The only thing we're
really doing here with respect to the policy is we're making a provision that allows the students
to opt in at any point.
To have credit no credit applied to any course through May 24. And what we're really hoping
students will do is We're hoping that all of you will encourage students, in looking at this policy
to do is use this as a last resort, not their first option.
Remember this is a temporary policy.
The other thing that we've done with the policy is the piece that involves the faculty's role in the
process for students to exercise the option. And this semester, what we're saying now is the
faculty member will not need to approve the request, but will be notified If the student chooses
the option, so the faculty member won't be able to stop the student from exercising the option
essentially, but will be notified if the student exercises the option.
we didn't identify that the policies should apply to graduate level courses. So I do need some
feedback from graduate departments from graduate programs to help us essentially craft what
can be a temp policy applied for graduate level courses.
We were doing this primarily to create a little bit of relief for some of the anxiety that we think
our students may be feeling at this point. appreciating that we are largely an undergraduate
campus. And so the primary concern was to communicate out to undergraduate students. While
we buy ourselves a little bit more time to figure out what would be the thoughtful equivalent for
graduate level courses.
As of right now, tell your graduate level students to be patient.
One thing I will request, Is a timely grade submission as students will be able to exercise this
option after they see their grade.
We are assuming all of your grades will be in well before the 24th , Which is the last day to
exercise the option.
Each department may feel differently about this. I am actually asking all of you to identify
whether or not there are some covid 19 contingency exceptions that might be made this

•
•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•

•
•
•

semester, that would allow the credit, no credit to actually help students as they continue to
meet their academic progress.
There's no pressure here. If any, if any of you decide that there's nothing to be relaxed in terms
of your policies, then that's what it is. If not, we'll attempt to use other mitigations to sort of help
students as they may find themselves in this very unusual situation and so on.
I have dentified one final bullet there, that I would still have to discuss with the registrar if the
faculty is really interested in this. And that is, since the students can exercise the option after
receiving their grades, it's conceivable that a student could get, for instance, a proficiency level
grade of fee for EC course, but decide that in the best interest of their GPA, they wanted to know
if having received that grade. They could then convert it to credit no credit because it would keep
their GPA from being impacted by a lower C grade. If in fact they're typically a higher performing
students. So those are the kinds of nuances to this thing that I'd like us to continue the discussion
for. But we figured we had to get something out to students to relieve some of the anxiety.
There's some other things potentially, to mitigate the impact. So you heard one one of the things
to mitigate the impact was in Andy's report. That is the President has agreed to currently
suspend the 2.0 residence hall policy, which essentially means that our students that are in the
residence hall where the GPA essentially has an additional impact for those students beyond
what is the typical academic standing impact. They're not going to they're going to be essentially
relieved of that for the next couple of semesters
SUNY has reached a modified agreement with Elsevier for some journals that I think a number of
you publish in or use for your research. And so there is now smaller list it, it has a little sub list
that has 200, I think and 48 journals on it. And Tony from the library will, I think over the next
few days, be able to handle any inquiries you may have with respect to that.
The only other thing I wanted to mention to you is, we know that faculty are concerned about
moving through their review prophecies under this brave new world that we're living in. And I
made a point to communicate with ARPT. I am identifying that it was the Provost memo that was
sent by email on March 27, to ARPT, asking them to provide whatever scheduling
accommodations they can provide to faculty members that are undergoing review this semester.
And lastly, most maybe a number of you, if not all of you, on SUNY and UUP are in discussions for
a MOU and that MOU is going to attempt to help us with some additional guidance that may
ease include creating some flexibility to stop the 10 year clock. And I'm just asking you to just
stand by, I think they're probably close to reaching agreement on the mru soon.
Jacob Heller has been identified out of Academic Affairs, as the person to provide logistical
assistance to faculty governance, so that we do the best that we can to support Faculty
governance as you continue to do the very important work that you're doing for the campus.
Floor was open for questions
I was just wanting to raise a question that came up in our faculty meeting in the psychology
department, just before this meeting, which was that we were wondering if there was going to
be any ability to adjust the credit, no credit cutoff for specific courses. So just specifically, we
have two classes that require a C or higher to progress, like as a prerequisite and also there are
other classes in that sequence. So it's really important that they do get the car hire in it. So we
were just wondering if there was going to be the option to make an adjustment
So, the answer, and I'm not and I know you folks are not going to like the answer, but the answer
here is going to be no.
The questions went on, relating to the credit no credit policy.
A student asked a question about implementing a wider grading range/scale, the answer was no.

•

Jacob Heller had a comment: think that Duncan has mentioned this in academic affairs meetings
many times what we're discovering in this crisis is that there are lots of our policies that should
be revised, that we should update a little bit. And I think what he just said is absolutely right.
These are questions for the APPC for the Senate, because maybe we should have a more
nuanced credit, no credit policy, but this is something for the Senate to put on their agenda going
forward. All of these contingency plans are exactly that the contingency for this semester, this
semester only, and that's not in any way a precedent for what's going forward. So just want to
make that clear.

VI. Special Order of Business: At Large Representative to the EC
•

•
•

•

The next order of business is a special order of business the we have a vacancy on the executive
committee for the remainder of this year. The position is the at large representative to the
executive committee who would join the executive committee and meet with us. About twice a
month vote on agenda items and the like. We have opened nominations in the chat we have one
nomination. Are there any other nominations?
The nomination was Shawn Estes and was seconded by way of the chat function in Zoom
Great. So we have one nomination and the nomination has been seconded. And as we have no
further nominations, I'd like to ask for unanimous consent to have Shawn Estes join the executive
committee for the remainder of this academic year. Are there any objections to unanimous
consent?
Approved by unanimous consent

VII. UUP Update (M. Livingston)
•

5 minutes (end 1:15)

5 minutes (end 1:20)

No Report given

VIII. Old Business
· Presidential Search Update
•

•

•
•

5 minutes (end 1:25)

The information I have is from a an email sent by the chair of the college council, who is also the
chair of the search committee, Millie Mark Gianni She unfortunately had to cancel the college
council meeting for today. And she sent out an email announcing that cancellation and giving an
update on the search
I have summarized the key points and bullet points which are on your screen right now. The key
information is that a final draft of the advertisement in the perspective is at the chancellor's
office. As soon as the chancellor's office approves that, then the search firm can begin to
recruiting of candidates for the presidency.
So we're waiting on the chancellor's office to do an approval and then the search firm will open
the recruitment for the search.
The next key point that Miss Milli Makajani shared with us is that these are unusual
circumstances and while the search committee is going to do its best to keep the current
presidential search timeline in place, she thinks that it will be likely that the current timeline of

the search will probably have to be extended four to six weeks. She says that she's going to keep
everyone, faculty staff, the college counsel updated about the status of the search.
· CAP Micro-Credential Resolutions (R. Yamamoto & L. Chipley)
•

15 minutes (end 1:40)

A discussion involving the demand and possible need for extra sections of the class opened up

· Fundamentals of Non-Fiction Video Production
•
•

The resolution was posted on the screen and read out loud to be voted on.
therefore, be it resolved that the Faculty Senate approved the proposed micro credential in the
fundamentals of television news production.

· Fundamentals of Television News Production
•

Hearing no objection, therefore, be it resolved that the Faculty Senate approved the proposed
micro credential in the fundamentals of television news production.

· Advanced TV/Video Production
•
•

I'm going to read the resolved at the bottom, therefore be it resolved that the Faculty Senate
approved the proposed micro credential in advance TV and video production.
Hearing no objection, the resolution is approved.

IX. New Business?

20 minutes (end 2:00)

· Credit/No Credit
•

Was thoroughly discussed in Provost report

· ARPT Update (C. Hobson)
•

•

•

So very, very briefly on there are a number of ARPT quiz on cases left this semester on following
the schedule that we had set up in the beginning, I think we will be able to on an adhere to the
schedule for all the scheduled presentations RBT is on open to requests for on reduction in the
time line for deposit of the files on particularly since these are electronic files that can be dealt
with immediately on after being sent to us on so there's flexibility built in on that level. But I
think we can maintain the schedule that we have
There are kind of two modes for proceeding on files this semester. Some departments have been
able to put together completely electronic files in Which all of the materials that would normally
appear in a physical file are digitized and appear in the electronic file. And in that case, the
department first of all can vote on them with full knowledge
secondly, ARPT can vote on them with full knowledge. And in those cases, a ARPT takes a normal
vote, as it normally does, writes a recommendation letter and everything goes forward in the
normal fashion. There are other cases, for example, where the file was already deposited some
time ago as a physical file, where that just isn't practical.

•

•
•

•

•

in that case, the arrangement that we've adopted is that the departments can send us the guts of
the file record material, which is basically the department recommendation the candidates CV
and self-evaluation, on procedures of course, and student evaluations and peer evaluations,
where they are easily available.
Then ARPT on our asks questions about the rest is this material in the file is that material on the
file and so on so forth. Following all of that, we take a non-binding vote and then at some point
are when physical access to the files becomes possible.
Again, we look at the files and see if there's any reason to revisit that non-binding vote. If there
isn't, we simply accepted as the vote. And if there is we deal with whatever that situation is, but
in the great majority of cases on there will not be any reason to reconsider the vote which would
have been based on good information. So those are our procedures for considering files this
semester.
The other issue that came up in relations To the current semester, is student evaluations are
optional and also observations, peer observations, being optional. None of that relates to the
cases that are remaining for this semester. Because in all of those cases, the evaluation period
was what was up through the end of the proceedings semester. Those accommodations will
apply in the fall and ongoing as those semesters become relevant to new files that are in front of
us on next academic year
The floor was open to questions. Including extending the deadline for a file

· Nominations & Elections Update
•

•

•
•
•

So the key thing is that there is a deadline for nominations nominations are still open until the
17th of April. You should all have the word document nomination sheet that was emailed to all
faculty and that I attached to our Senate invitation as well. That ballot Word file. It's called the
nomination sheet needs to be filled out and returned to Nora Martinez in the senate office either
as an email attachment or in the physical mail. So the due date for that is April 17.
There are still empty nominations and that is not good. So senators, we need you to of course,
nominate yourself nominate your friends, nominate your enemies, and go to your departments
and seek out with the help of your wonderful chairs. People to run for these important
committees the election will be conducted after that. We have time before June 15. Even with
current situation.
I just wanted to mention there. We do need nominations for the academic practices committee,
and particularly from school of business for certain committees.
We will be emailing out the ballots a little bit after the deadline. And we will accept returns
either by email or by regular mail.
The mailroom is considered essential and can hold onto ballots of necessary

X. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements
•

•

20 minutes (end 2:20)

Next Planery is in two weeks, Laurie Morris just wanted to know if you have any feedback about
how your students are fairing with online transition, you know strengths about it, challenges
about it. Things that might not necessarily be available data wise from academic affairs, also
Student Government
I don't know if student government or student affairs is going to attempt to get a sense of how
students reacted. But that's kind of information I would like to have to take back because we're

considering a resolution really in support of face to face, more traditional classes as well as the
push towards online but it would be helpful, helpful to have some data to support that.
•

Mandy Frisken: A fairly depressing discussion about whether colleges are going to survive
this crisis. And one of the things that came up one of the discussions that that emerged,
which I thought was really interesting, and I wanted to share with all of you was the idea
that the colleges that are going to survive this are the ones that become resources for
their communities in this time of crisis, and particularly helping to support communities
recovering after the crisis in the months following, and I just thought I'd put that out
there. It's it's completely in line with our mission to think along those lines. But I think
there are ways in which we might want to think proactively about the next 12 to 18
months, what we can do, what kind of projects we can begin, what kind of organization
we can create, to help communities that depend on us now
• Thank you,. That's exactly the kind of thing or approach we are going to probably want to
take because we do feel the comp colleges especially do feel more threatened. Now that
we've been forced to go online, and then, you know, with all the proposed additional
budget cuts, Cuomo was talking about cuts to education, probably not so much K through
12. So it's probably going to be higher ed. So we're feeling even more, you know, I guess I
don't, I don't even think paranoids word anymore, more just more threatened that, you
know, unless we can show that we are actually meeting a major need or function that will
justify the additional costs of a brick and mortar. So that's exactly the kind of thinking
about Thank you.
• Question from the CFO of SGA. Javan Spencer Newell about the grading policy. I have
come to request that hopefully supplement in order to supplement what was already
said. Or what the school already decided. If we can also possibly Institute an interim
grading policy. Implementing a grading scale
• Speaking as a faculty senate chair, just like to say that, you know, the Senate is happy to
consider this. And that SGA should bring us a resolution or send us what you're talking
about in text.
•

Conversation continued covering this grading scale policy, the credit/no credit policy and the so
forth

•
XI. Adjournment