Faculty Rights and Responsibilities Committee (FRRC)
Annual Report 2018-2019
Respectfully submitted by Alireza Ebrahimi, Chair

Members:
FRRC consists of seven members with four continuing members: Katarzyna (Kasia) Platt, Blidi Stemn,
Yogesh More, Alireza Ebrahimi and three new members: Seojung Jung, Yu Lei, and Shijian Li.

MEETINGS (2018-2019):
First meeting of FRRC was held on September 10, 2018:
• The meeting opened with introduction of committee members, followed by explanation of the
role of the FRRC, presentation of the Annual Report 2017-2018, and identification of work to
be completed.
• The committee elected Alireza Ebrahimi as the chair and Yogesh More as the new secretary.
• An Academic Grievance Committee (AGC) was formed to process a grievance filed by a
student about a faculty from the English Department.
• The meeting included a presentation on the Faculty Bylaws, including the section on Faculty
Rights and Responsibilities.
• The scheduling of future FRRC meetings was determined. The members also discussed that, in
case of urgent matters that may prevent attending in person, a member can conference call
Next meeting was held October 31, 2018:
• The members reviewed 2017-2018 Annual Report for FRRC and some of the correction were
made.
• The Chair thanked Kasia for her presentation at the Special Faculty Meeting on governance,
and thanked Yu Lie for his attendance.
• The committee discussed the following possible topics for a workshop during Spring 2019:
quality of life issues at SUNY Old Westbury including faculty parking and parking lot lighting,
alignment of academic calendars with public school breaks for both OW faculty and students;
issues regarding classes before holidays (e.g., Thanksgiving, 48-hour deadline for grade
submission; Common Hours timing - prime time (alternate); mold in campus buildings,
collaboration and consultation among other departments, especially in offering minors.
• The committee decided to send a survey to faculty regarding proposed faculty rights and
responsibilities issues, and time of the workshop. Shijian agreed to conduct the survey.
Next meeting was held February 20, 2019:
• A faculty grievance against Faculty University Award Committee (FUAC) was discussed. The
grievance was based on procedures and changing criteria of FUAC. The chair recused himself
from the deliberation, and a new chair for this case was elected. A unanimous recommendation
6-0 was sent to FUAC to re-examine the case.
• In planning the faculty workshop, the committee decided to conduct the workshop during the
Full Faculty Meeting on May 10th; the topics of Faculty Bylaws and Quality of Life are among
the top items.

Next meeting was held on March 14, 2019:
• The committee discussed the previous faculty grievance case, and was working to resolve the
case by asking FUAC for a full deliberation and process of the derived decisions. FRRC would
like to review relevant sections of Faculty Bylaws on FUAC. One of the concerns regarding the
selection process was that there were only two committee members in FUAC.
• The following items regarding FUAC grievance case were discussed and recommended:
FRRC would like to recommend that FUAC provide, in future cycles, ample notification and
detailed information on nomination process and selection criteria. Noting that in past years,
FUAC had recommended a greater amount of awards, FRRC also suggested the benefit in
nominating appropriate candidates to receive these SUNY-wide every year. In case there were
not enough eligible committee members to serve in FUAC, FRRC would like to suggest
possible exception. There should be an effort to raise awareness of these SUNY-wide awards
among all faculty members.
• In addition to faculty workshop, the other topic discussed was Open Educational Resources
(OER). The chair thanked Seojung for introducing and promoting the FRRC committee during
the full Faculty Meeting on Friday March 1st.
Next meeting was held May 1, 2019:
• Faculty Survey was discussed. There were suggestions to expand the survey by including
issues related to ethics, grievances, quality of life, UUP and office hours. The committee
decided to send revised topics to Chair of Faculty Senate, and to send survey online after May
10th meeting, in addition to distributing hard copy of survey during the workshop on May 10th.
• FRRC formed a subcommittee on Bylaws to look into FUAC membership. Also, in accordance
with Faculty Senate resolution on SPAARC, the sub-committee was formally charged by the
Senate Chair as a Bylaws Working Group, consistent with FRRC responsibilities under the
Faculty Bylaws. Working Group members include Blidi, Ali, along with Maureen Dolan,
designated by the Senate Chair as liaison to Executive Committee. Three other faculty Lorenz
Neuwirth, Mervyn Keizer and Julio Gonzales also volunteered to serve on Bylaws Working
Group.
Following the Faculty Senate meeting of May 17:
• In accordance with Senate resolution to accept the proposed revisions to ARPT Manual, the
Bylaws Working Group was also directed to conduct appropriate review and facilitate process
for faculty comments, prior to submitting revised ARPT Manual to a vote by the full faculty for
inclusion in Appendix of Faculty Bylaws.
WORKSHOP
•
•

FRRC Workshop took place on May 10th at the Full Faculty meeting.
A questionnaire was distributed and discussed; Faculty were asked to fill the questionnaire.
Issues in questionnaire included: Faculty Bylaws, Instructional Support, Quality of Life
(including faculty lounge/center, faculty parking, faculty housing), Common Hour
Alternative/Rotation, and Ethics & Grievances. Please see attached questionnaire.

STUDENT GRIEVANCE

•
•
•

The Academic Grievance Committee (AGC) convened with three members of FRRC and a
member from the department involved in the case. There were two student grievances that
reached the FRRC during 2018-2019. In both cases the grades were upheld.
The Academic Grievance Committee (AGC) met on Monday September 12, 2018 and
reviewed the materials provided by student in the English Department, received on August 28.
The committee voted to uphold the faculty decision in regard to grade change.
A grievance submitted by a student in the Psychology Department on June 6th, 2019. The
student grievance objected to faculty decision not to permit a make-up for the second midterm
for Spring 2019. The AGC met on June 19, 2019 to discuss student's case. The committee
voted to uphold the decision of the faculty in regard to the course policy.

FACULTY GRIEVANCE
•

There were three grievances in total. One proceeded; the committee deliberated and gave its
finding. The other two faculty grievances were on-hold due to the request from the faculty.

FUTURE PLANNING
•
•
•
•

Examine Quality of Life issues on campus, including faculty lounge/center, faculty parking,
faculty housing, and alignment of Spring and Winter breaks with public schools in region.
Discuss final grade submission deadline, currently 48 hours after giving final exam. Automated
system. Instructional and technological support and accessibility - NAB Smart classrooms.
Seek solution for flexible scheduling of Common Hour and staff meetings, possibly move back
Common Hour to mid-day (noon), at least on alternative day.
Prioritize review process for revised ARPT Manual. Bylaws Working Group will undertake
appropriate review process for SPAARC, in preparing for submission to full faculty vote to
amend Appendix of Faculty Bylaws. Also undertake periodic 5-year review of Faculty Bylaws

Attachment