Minutes of the GENERAL FACULTY
May 9,2003

MEETING

S-100 12:30 p.m. - 2:15 p.m.
1. Approval of the Minutes for General Faculty Meeting February

28, 2003

The minutes of the previous meeting were approved with changes to item #3, Report from
the AVP. Paragraphs three and four should read:
Approval from the State Education Department for the M.S. in Accounting enables
additional master’s degrees without site visits if we are successful. The AV asked
for cooperation. His office should be informed immediately if issues arise while the

reviewers are on campus.

~

He chairs the Task Force Committee. There will be an open debate, considering
variables such as quality of education, flexibility of credit hours on scheduling,
ability of students to finish, workload, etc. Faculty will receive a list of the Task
Force members and members of the subcommittees when it is available.
Fifth paragraph, first sentence, the phrase which proves the opportunity to bring class
should be removed.

2. Report from the Chair of Faculty Senate (R. Colon-Urban)
The Chair thanked everyone for attending the last meeting of the year and for their
cooperation, especially from members of the Executive Committee. The following issues
concern the faculty:
1) The three- or four-credit issue continues to be studied.

2) The Budget and Planning Committee needs to continue to work more with the
faculty.
3) Is there a procedure about the administration response to Senate
resolutions?
4) Follow-up on a meeting with County Executive Suozzi about the use of
300 acres.

3. Report from the President (Calvin O. Butts, III)
The President thanked everyone for a wonderful year. Challenges would not have been met
without the cooperation of the faculty and the leadership in the Office of Academic Affairs
and department chairs. Students have expressed how much they have learned and enjoyed
their studies.
The budget has forced us to cut adjuncts. We will not abandon our commitment to new
and core faculty. We need to support all of our programs; none will suffer due to graduate
programs. Given the time and money invested in bringing new faculty in, we want to keep
them.

The four-credit academic model will not change over the summer.
for the Task Force report, the new AVP, and the CAP report.

The President will wait

These will help him

understand more about the credit models and how they impact on faculty, staff, and
students.

The President read the mission statement (attached)
College Cabinet and endorsed by Faculty Senate. He
Anker and M. Kinane and all who participated in its
Newell.
The President, looking forward to graduation, noted

which has been approved by the
thanked the committee co-chairs L.
development, especially Birdie
Gabe Pressman is the keynote speaker.

He wished everyone a good summer and thanked them for their work in improving the

quality of life at Old Westbury.

In response to questions, the President noted that Nassau County Executive Suozzi is
encouraging us as a College and that he expects him to return to campus. The
reorganization was done to correct waste.

The President was pleased that Dick Grasso,

Chair of the Stock Exchange, visited our campus.

4. Report from the Academic Vice-President

(Patrick O’Sullivan)

The AVP asked the faculty to approve the list of graduates. The following resolution was
passed by acclimation:
Whereas the Board of Trustees has given the responsibility to the
faculty to participate significantly in the initiation, development, and
implementation of the educational program:
Therefore, Be It Resolved that the list of graduates compiled by the
Office of Academic Affairs be approved by the faculty, subject to
the final vote of the department as verified by the Office of the
Registrar for each academic program.
The AVP thanked President Butts for the opportunity to work as interim AVP. He also
expressed appreciation to Rita Colon-Urban and members of the College Cabinet for their
high level of cooperation and to departmental chairs and faculty for educating him about
their departments.
5.

General Education/Assessment Report (H. Lewittes)

All departments have an assessment plan. The General Education assessment plan was
accepted with minor clarifications. The second phase is data collection. The School of
Business, ILR, and PES Departments are all conducting assessments; data will be collected
and analyzed as scheduled. There is still some confusion when advising.
General Education data collection takes place in multi-year plans. SUNY reports the
percentage of students who approach, exceed or don’t meet standards. The (SUNY)
Faculty Senate is opposed to standardized SUNY assessment and centralized data

collection. We are meeting the standards that we set. SUNY would like statistics; data
won’t be in until June. Faculty Senate will not meet and will have to revisit the issue this
fall.

6. UUP Report

(Candelario Franco)

Bill Scheuerman and Eileen Landy were reelected. The march for education was a huge
success. Both houses of legislation and governor agreed to extend the budget $1.1 billion
for education.

To make up for the deficit, there will be is a $950.00 tuition increase, rising

$8,000 - $13,000 for out-of-state and foreign students. Those campuses without a large
number of out-of-state and foreign students will suffer; UUP will work the Chancellor to
develop a formula. Everyone was encouraged to contact legislators to thank them for their
support and encourage them to override a Governor’s budget veto should it occur.

The Benefit Trust Fund will answer questions about our new dental plan.

7. Student Life Committee

(Barbara Joseph)

On behalf of the Committee, Barbara Joseph distributed a report (attached). The
Committee presented student concerns about the following issues: safety, security patrols
at night, faulty exit lights and emergency phones, handicapped access through doors and
elevators, and the attitude of the campus police towards students. Students are not clear
about the role of the judiciary committee. Students also expressed concerned about
transportation, maintenance and snow removal, and being ticketed for parking violations
due to snow which they have volunteered to shovel. Students believe some paths and steps
are not safe for the handicapped and that the office of OSSD is understaffed.
There is a lack of flexible hours for food service which
court. There is the issue of training and sensitivity for
Affirmative Action Committee and Sexual Harassment
review of the lines of communication and intervention
campus departments.

should improve with the food
staff and the existence of
Committee. Students ask for a
which take place among various

There is some conflict with extracurricular events; a full-time events coordinator is needed.

Students would like more faculty involvement in student programs. Changing the campus
schedule to Monday/Thursday and Tuesday/Friday with Wednesday for meetings might be
an effective way to increase the involvement of more members of the campus community.

The residential life issues of a curfew, the resident assistants’ contract, student services for

substance abuse on and off campus, and the zero tolerance policy were raised.
8.

BPC Report (Tom DelGiudice)

Tom DelGiudice, Vice Chair, distributed a report (attached). He encouraged everyone to
offer suggestions, questions, and concerns to any BPC member and to also volunteer for
any of the subcommittees in their area of expertise.
He emphasized the goals of growing enrollment, building a quality image, and attaining
financial equilibrium. He noted the $3.9 million shortfall. President Butts was able to get

3

$8.3 million to supplement the BAP formula. We still have control over $10 million. The
allocation for capital projects on page 4 should read 2003-2008 (not 2003-2004). The
BPC has not discussed this in detail.
In response to questions about eliminated positions, Tom noted more cuts were made in
administrative than academic areas. The cuts were not in BPC minutes because of the time

urgency imposed by SUNY. The Senate Chair asked if the terminated individuals were
able to keep their jobs if they agreed to lower salaries. The President commented that
eligible individuals were offered retirement and took it.

Our utility costs are very high and we need to look for efficiencies in, for example, better

supervision of personnel, yield ratios for recruitment activities, and preventative
maintenance. Overtime costs were reduced 89% by rescheduling staff. We are
understaffed which affects morale.

Everyone was encouraged to examine the five-year plan which is the Faculty Senate
Office.
9.

Results on the vote By Laws Revisions

The ballots have not been counted due to the Faculty Secretary’s absence.
sent in the mail.
10.

Results will be

Old Business

None to report.
11.

New Business

The Executive Committee, with flowers, thanked outgoing Senate Chair Dr. Rita ColonUrban for her leadership and the assembly vigorously applauded.
Jill Edelsen announced the Child Care Center is open this July for children 18 months - 5
years of age. Old Westbury people have first preference.
Sharon O’Connor invited everyone to visit the new Teacher Education Lab in the lower
level of the library. She thanked Tom DelGiudice for his assistance. She also invited
participation in the campus Service Learning Initiative and to the first annual Service
Learning Awards ceremony. She thanked President Butts for agreeing to be the keynote
speaker.
Madeline Crocitto reminded everyone to donate to the Faculty Fund.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:15 p.m.