SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, November 7, 2003

12:50-2:30 pm

Present: K. Velsor, E. Linger, R.J. Edelson, M. Dolan, L. Cox, B. Hillery, M.
Colaneri, I. Ahmed, A. Martinez, A. Barbera, M. Metlay, D. Quarless, C. Hobson,
M. Keefe, H. Lewittes, G. Snedeker, S. O’Connor, C. Bernard, C. Ottenheimer.
Visitors: P. Kurz, B. Calderone, P. Smith, R. Gonzalez, R., Welton,

M. Barsamian

Minutes —
Names are used for motions and not listed for points of discussion.
George Snedeker pointed out that the OSSD report had been made by him.
Jill Edelson agreed to help new secretary with other discrepancies and errors.
Minutes approved as corrected.
Il.

Report of the Chair (KateVelsor)
Candidates for Student Affairs V.P. — we have seen a very well-qualified group. There is
one more meeting with the last candidate scheduled for Tuesday Nov. 18.
Memorandum of understanding (Maureen Dolan reporting on the Oswego meeting)
1. All the councils of technical schools, universities, and the community colleges
brought strongly worded resolutions of faculty opposition to the system-wide
assessment proposal. A two-page resolution and a two-page narrative that
summarizes the history of the issue are available.
2. Proposals were made for altering the nature of the Distinguished Professor award
to include service to university governance and the awarding of a medallion for all
Distinguished Professor awards.
Discussion and questions to M. Dolan about the meeting.
Regarding other campuses’ difficulty finding assistant chairs for Faculty Senate, K.
Velsor reported that we are not alone other campuses have reported difficulty in
finding professors to participate in governance.

Il.

Report of the Academic Vice Pres (Lawrence Cox)

Congratulations to Ed Bever and Tom DelGiudice for their work on Blackboard and
other educational technologies for faculty use.
The schedule of M-Th, T-F schedule is being discussed by Ron Welton and others.

$3.3 million of supplemental funding has been approved, but there is a serious need for

enrollment increases. We are behind with less than 40% of current students enrolled for
Spring semester. Please request and remind students to enroll.
Discussion.
1. Organizational chart of university administration is out of date.
2. Dr. Cox announced the retirement of two staff members: including our grants
and research specialists; there is a search to replace them There was a
discussion that the faculty should be involved in the search committees.
3. The curricular implications of scheduling changes and the procedures for making
scheduling decisions suggest further discussion and faculty input from CAP is

necessary regarding the possibility and/or desirability of the M-W to the M-Th
(as well as the early morning-late night) schedule changes.
4. There exists an issue of community colleges not pushing transfer students to go
to Old Westbury. Some transfer students need to take more courses due to
SUNY standards. The same standard may not be enforced by some of the
private colleges in the area, at least not until they are evaluated.
5. We are seeking to standardize or make seamless transfers from community
college courses which depends on our assessment of transcripts.
IV.

SEFA report to
Services and Pat
Request for more
Discussion — the
the bid for an

the Faculty Senate (Ben
Smith of SEFA).
pledges and donations to
campaign is administered
amount of roughly 3-5%

Calderone of Long Island Developmental
SEFA and broader participation.
by the United Way of Long Island (who won
of overhead expenses).

Report on election for campus-wide vacancies (K.Velsor)

Nominations for committees

1. CAP — Lynn Walsh from the Department of Management & Marketing was
nominated.
2. Question of whether the by-laws permit elected officers and committee officers to
also represent their departments.
Discussion: By-laws of article 5-a. point 2 (p. 8) reads only “may not serve as an atlarge and as a representative of the department.” (See attached copy of results of
proposed bylaws revisions of May 21, 2003, #1)

3. One officer (Faculty Senator-at-Large) can be appointed by the Chair, thus Sharon
O’Connor is now the new Senator-at-Large.
VI.

Report from Academic Policy Committee (A. Barbera)
Following the recommendation of the Academic Policy Committee, a motion was made
by A. Barbera and seconded to note the academic majors on student diplomas. The Yes
vote was unanimous.

VII.

Resolution on OSSD
Discussion was held as to who actually made the report on the OSSD Resolution, and the
wording of the resolution regarding whether we are providing adequate services to the
forty or so students who actually use the OSSD.
Motion was made by Anthony Barbera to postpone the discussion and consider possible
amendments or changes of wording for the next meeting. Motion seconded and passed.

VII.

Old Business
Announcement of Open House Nov 9.
Cuba course had to be canceled as an Old Westbury trip but we are trying to help
students who applied to get into other groups or to find other alternatives.
Nov 16 — launching of the Center for Latino/Latin American culture - RSVP.

Ix.

New business — none.

Meeting of November 7, 2003, adjourned at 2:30 pm.