Client Success Story

About SUNY
Fredonia
Sector: Four-Year Public
Carnegie Classification:
Master’s: Medium
Full-Time Equivalent
Enrollment: 4,386
Full-Time Retention Rate: 79.2%
Six-Year Graduation Rate: 61.9%

Scheduling is Key to Strategic
Enrollment Management
SUNY Fredonia aligned course offerings and classroom capacity with
student course demand resulting in substantial instructional cost
savings and a more student-friendly schedule.
When Dr. Terry Brown joined the State
University of New York (SUNY) at Fredonia as provost in 2013, she faced an
uncomfortable, but unavoidable fact:
the 5,000-student, four-year institution
was heading toward a “fiscal cliff” of
declining enrollment, increasing costs,
and decreasing revenue.
After 15 years of steady growth where
enrollment increased by 1,000 full-time
students in 2010, the trend began to
reverse, and by 2015, Fredonia experienced a 1,000 full-time student decline.
The practice of “rolling the schedule
forward” continued despite all the
demographic changes that were
occurring around them. Faced with
increasingly larger gaps between the cost
of instruction and tuition revenues, they
needed a proactive solution.
Provost Brown and Associate Provost
Dr. Lisa Hunter understood swift action

was needed to balance Fredonia’s costs
and revenue amidst the turbulence.
Provost Brown presented an academic
plan with three areas of focus: strategic
enrollment management, reallocation of
resources, and curricular transformation.
After securing a grant from the State
University of New York system, Fredonia
partnered with Ad Astra to specifically
address their reallocation of resources.
“Working with Ad Astra is a tactic within
the broader framework and an overall
plan to influence transformation of the
institution.”
Provost Dr. Terry Brown
State University of New
York at Fredonia

After discussing all options, the Fredonia
leadership team selected the Higher
Education Scheduling Index (HESI®)

The Challenge
Fredonia experienced a
1,000 full-time
student decline.
As enrollment declined,
Fredonia faced gaps
between cost of
instruction and tuition
revenues, creating a
widening budget

The Solution
Used advanced
analytics to align course
schedule with student
needs for Fall 2016 and
Spring 2017

The Result
An overall savings in
instructional costs of
$283,000
Increase average student
credit hour production
by 1.9%.

CheckUp, a customized historical analysis of institutional
capacity and course offerings coupled with professional
consulting services, and Platinum Analytics™, to provide
insight and predictive data for more informed scheduling decisions. This was a key step in understanding how
to reduce instructional costs and improve scheduling to
meet student need.
“Creating an optimal and student-centered course schedule
is one of the most important things an institution can do
to help students graduate on time.”
Dr. Lisa Hunter, Associate Provost
State University of New York at Fredonia

SUNY Fredonia Average Full-Time Student
Credit Hour Production (2015-2017)
14.9
14.85

14.87

14.8
14.75
14.73

14.65
14.6
14.55

14.59

14.5
14.45

In early 2016, Ad Astra consultants and the Fredonia
scheduling team analyzed five years of course enrollment
data to identify sections that were either overloaded or
under-filled. The team identified 86 sections with historically low enrollment to remove, and three sections that
appeared to be “bottlenecked” to add. The revisions
didn’t stop there, though.
Ad Astra consultants continued to analyze student-specific
academic information and found the exercise of refining
the schedule for the Fall term had influenced a Spring
schedule which was more aligned with student course
demand. Although they were less substantial, changes for the Spring 2017 term were made, including the
removal of 13 sections and the addition of 14 to address

Fall 2015

Fall 2016

Fall 2017

Fredonia’s student course needs. The actions from these
two terms netted an overall savings in instructional costs
of $283,000 and increased the average student credit
hour production by 1.9%. This increase in student credit
hour production can positively impact student retention,
time-to-completion, and graduation.
By engaging in a multi-tiered analysis over two terms,
Fredonia leadership has demonstrated how a data-informed approach can lead to increased student course
load, greater efficiency with institutional resources, and
a positive impact on degree velocity.

About Ad Astra Information Systems
Ad Astra Information Systems is based in Overland Park, Kansas, and serves higher
education institutions and systems worldwide. We offer data-informed software
solutions and professional services to effectively allocate space and faculty resources,
forecast student demand, and accelerate student completions.