2017-2018 Annual Report of the Faculty Rights and Responsibilities
Committee (FRRC)

Respectfully submitted by Alireza Ebrahimi, Chair

November 10th, 2018



MEMBERSHIP

The FRRC consists of seven members of which four are continuing members
(Peter Ikeler, Sarah Smith, Wen-Wen(Erica) Chien, and Alireza Ebrahimi) and
three new members (Katarzyna (Kasia) Platt, Bilidi Stemn and Yogesh More).



MEETINGS

    • The first meeting of FRRC was held on September 14th, 2017. The
      meeting opened with the introduction of the committee members followed
      by the explanation of the role of the FRRC, followed by presentation
      of the Annual Report, and the identified work to be completed. The
      committee elected Alireza Ebrahimi as the chair and Sarah Smith as the
      new secretary.

      The committee discussed possible workshops for Fall 2017 semester.
      Suggestions included but were not limited to: syllabus training,
      parking problems, grade change timing-policy and presenting such
      workshops. The Committee agreed to begin accepting syllabus
      suggestions and to send the suggested language/ideas for inclusion in
      syllabi to the FRRC secretary a week prior next meeting. In addition,
      the committee discussed the previous workshop suggestions and
      developing a potential memo regarding the 48-hour-grade submission
      rule.

      At the meeting, the secretary asked all FRRC members to provide
      syllabus suggestions and input to be discussed at the next meeting,
      such as possible language about being “subject to change”, appropriate
      OSSD wording, and text book usage (required vs. recommended).

    • At the Friday November 3rd, 2017 meeting, the minutes from the
      September 14th meeting were approved. The FRRC chair discussed the
      parking issues and the formation of an ad hoc Parking Task Force as a
      subcommittee of the FRRC. As a result of discussion at Faculty Senate
      and Full Faculty meetings, it was recommended that ad hoc task force
      on parking be formed under the purview of FRRC, with expanded
      membership to include additional faculty, staff and students. The
      committee expressed some of the Parking Task Force’s concerns and
      scheduled a general meeting on November 7th 2017, inviting all the
      stakeholders.

      Ad Hoc Parking Task Force

      At its initial meeting on November 7th, the committee discussed
      insights and concerns regarding parking issues on campus. Task Force
      members discussed possible development of both long-term and short-
      term solutions for the identified parking issues/concerns to be
      studied.

      Identified concerns included:

         o The availability of Parking Lot B after 6:00pm, safety, empty
           buses running back and forth with respect to its cost, service
           need, and its environmental impact.

         o The Clark Center Parking lot availability at the beginning of
           the fall semester and impact of rental that carried over the
           Summer into the Fall semesters were discussed. It was pointed
           out that students need increased awareness or earlier
           notification about the Clark Center Parking lot space
           availability prior to fall classes beginning if such Summer
           rental agreements were to carry over into Fall semester.

         o Members discussed the very serious impact that parking problems
           could result in loss of student enrollment, and may further
           hinder adjuncts getting to class on time to teach, as they are
           usually already rushing to get between schools. The
           administration should take serious note of this and begin to
           address/remedy this issue, with faculty input. However, it
           should be made clear that this, is not the job of the faculty,
           but faculty would offer their input into discussion through
           Faculty Governance to best resolve it.

         o Some of the ideas proposed by the Parking Task Force were:

               o faculty-allotted parking and possibility of Parking App to
                 be purchased/created by Information Technology (IT)
                 Department

               o re-purpose and new-build parking lots in the old Academic
                 Village areas

               o create a more direct walking path between the Clark Center
                 and the University Police station parking lot

               o collect ongoing data on parking volume, peak times, etc.,
                 and/or see if University Police have already collected such
                 data

               o underground re-design of the Natural Science Building




    • A meeting was held on Friday December 15th, 2017 to address a
      grievance case issued by a student in regards to someone hacking into
      the student’s Old Westbury account by an ex-partner. The issue was
      discussed and suggestions were offered to the students and the FRRC
      Committee asked the student to update the FRRC Chair.

      At the meeting, some of the workshop suggestions including the 48-hour
      rule for submitting grades were discussed. After consulting with the
      Registrar, the FRRC planned to submit a resolution to increase the
      time form 48-hours. The first step was to invite a representative from
      the Registrar to discuss the 48 -hour rule to the FRRC.  The plan was
      for the workshop to be scheduled for the next semester and it was
      scheduled to be discussed at the next full Faculty Senate meeting,
      along with providing a syllabus template.

      There was also an issue about a Department that created a minor in
      another Department. The FRRC agreed to review procedures for
      developing minors with courses in other Department(s), through
      collaborative and collegial consultation.

      Ad Hoc Parking Task Force

      Regarding the ongoing parking lot issues, Peter lkler, Alireza
      Ebrahimi and Lorenz Neuvirth from the Ad Hoc Parking Task Force
      presented their work, findings, and recommendations to the Faculty
      Senate for consideration, with a list of what the Parking Task Force
      considered to be priorities. The FRRC has since been reviewing the
      recommendations proposed by the Parking Task Force, and the extra
      funding for a new parking lot at the college. The FRRC discussed the
      parking lot issues and other creative problem-solving ideas from the
      Parking Task Force including:

         o the need for safety including improvements in parking lot
           lighting and maintenance,

         o parking spots for the residential students( premier spots),

         o dedicated parking areas for faculty/staff,

         o fresh paint for the parking lot in the Academic Village,

         o Campus Center reconfiguration (rocks area and side area), –  the
           long range parking (residential), short term parking (30-minute
           parking meter),

         o a parking App to facilitate real-time data on available parking
           spaces

         o mass transit improvement

         o increased frequency of school shuttle bus (school and station)

         o ADA compliance within all the aforementioned

      The news of allocating $2.8 million dollars to the new parking lot was
      promising and there was a need for the cost analysis so that the
      Parking Task Force could send their recommendation to Faculty Senate
      by January 1st, 2018.  The FRRC recommended the following issues to be
      discussed in the Faculty Senate: budget, safety, Campus Center
      reconfiguration, residential parking, visitor parking, and mass
      transit concerns.

      The FRRC recommended that:

         o No external events should be held on campus in the beginning of
           the Fall semester because that is the time when parking needs
           for new and returning students are greatest, and if competition
           [for parking] were to arise this could result in student de-
           registering from classes in the Fall.

         o For any on-campus event, the college should provide parking
           planning services (attendance). The FRRC agreed to present the
           parking issues to the Faculty Senate.




    • At the meeting on March 14th 2018, the ad hoc Parking Task Force
      recommendation and administration’s response were discussed. There
      were some continuing concerns about residential student parking and
      the need for more permanent spaces.

      The FRRC discussed the creating of a syllabus template for any Faculty
      who are looking for guidance.  It would include syllabus “subject to
      change” rules; midterms and exams policy; course description and
      outcomes/objectives; course requirements and description of
      assignments; late submissions policy; grading scheme; link to OSSD and
      Academic Integrity; writing center blurb; course calendar (including
      readings, exam dates, last date to withdraw –tentative); office hours
      and contact information including email and other forms of contact;
      contact information for the IT Department and the link to Blackboard.

      The FRRC Secretary will start a template so others can add to the
      proposed template for the workshop presentation. The date for the
      workshop was scheduled for May 11th, 2018.

      The committee reported that ARPT manual is under review for updates.



    • At the meeting of April 23rd, 2018 the agenda was dedicated to
      finalize the workshop on “Syllabus Suggestions” to be held on May
      11th, 2018 during the Full Faculty Senate Meeting. Some of the changes
      were made collectively at the meeting.

WORKSHOP

The FRRC Workshop on Syllabus suggestion took place at Full Faculty Meeting
on May 11th, 2018 Presented by Sarah Smith, Peter Ikeler, and Alireza
Ebrahimi. A template for suggested syllabi was presented based on research
by committee. The template helps the faculty especially for new faculty in
clarifying decision making processes in regards to student grievance cases,
describing the importance of course requirements including participation,
and grading policy system. The syllabus should address the course learning
outcome and assessing the learning objectives as it is mandated by Middle
States.

The template explains course information, instructor contact, course
description that uses Course Catalog, prerequisites, and textbooks.
Language from Course Catalog regarding incomplete grades and withdrawal
were used in the syllabus. Accommodations for students with disabilities
and other resources provided by the college such as tutoring centers and
library services were discussed. College policy on Academic Integrity and
other legal issues were discussed and referred to the SUNY statement. A web
site link may provide details for certain information. The syllabus
template ends with a course calendar, instructor notification, student
responsibilities and possible “subject to change” language.

The syllabus is an intellectual property (IP) of the Faculty and there
should be a mutual understanding between the Faulty and the Department.
Certain schools can insert accreditation requirements. Faculty may want to
add other information to syllabus for classes with internships. It was
pointed out that syllabi of adjunct faculty should be reviewed by
Department Chairs. A syllabus may address some behavioral policy and
require a signature line.


GRIEVANCES

A grievance case brought to the attention of FRRC by a professor, and the
chair met with the student and listened to the concerns in regard to
hacking of the student’s account by ex-partner. Student, prior to
complaint, had met with campus police and campus IT staff.  The case was
discussed on December 15th, 2017 and suggestions were provided, and request
to student to update the Chair.

On August 27th, 2018 a grievance case brought by a student from the English
Department, referred by the chair of Faculty Senate. A grievance Committee
was convened to discuss the case. The committee members reviewed the
documentations and met to discuss the case on September 12th, 2018. The
committee voted to uphold the original grade given by the instructor.

There were no (formal) Faculty Grievances during academic 2017-2018



FUTURE PLANNING:

    • Discussions on final grade submission due date (48 hours after the
      final given)

    • Common Hour move-back to noon, at least on alternative day

    • Quality of life in campus including faculty/staff lounge-center

    • Faculty Bylaws revision