Academic Bill of Rights

|. The Mission of the University.
The central purposes of a University are the pursuit of truth, the discovery of new knowledge through scholarship and
research, the study and reasoned criticism of intellectual and cultural traditions, the teaching and general development of
students to help them become creative individuals and productive citizens of a pluralistic democracy, and the transmission of
knowledge and learning to a society at large. Free inquiry and free speech within the academic community are indispensable
to the achievement of these goals. The freedom to teach and to learn depend upon the creation of appropriate conditions
and opportunities on the campus as a whole as well as in the classrooms and lecture halls. These purposes reflect the
values — pluralism, diversity, opportunity, critical intelligence, openness and fairness — that are the cornerstones of American
society.
ll. Academic Freedom
1. The Concept . Academic freedom and intellectual diversity are values indispensable to the American university. From its
first formulation in the General Report of the Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure of the American Association of
University Professors, the concept of academic freedom has been premised on the idea that human knowledge is a neverending pursuit of the truth, that there is no humanly accessible truth that is not in principle open to challenge, and that no
party or intellectual faction has a monopoly on wisdom. Therefore, academic freedom is most likely to thrive in an
environment of intellectual diversity that protects and fosters independence of thought and speech. In the words of the
General Report, it is vital to protect “as the first condition of progress, [a] complete and unlimited freedom to pursue inquiry
and publish its results.”
Because free inquiry and its fruits are crucial to the democratic enterprise itself, academic freedom is a national value as
well. In a historic 1967 decision ( Keyishian v. Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York ) the Supreme
Court of the United States overtumed a New York State loyalty provision for teachers with these words: “Our Nation is deeply
committed to safeguarding academic freedom, [a] transcendent value to all of us and not merely to the teachers concerned.”
In Sweezy v. New Hampshire , (1957) the Court observed that the “essentiality of freedom in the community of American
universities [was] almost self-evident.”
2. The Practice . Academic freedom consists in protecting the intellectual independence of professors, researchers and
students in the pursuit of knowledge and the expression of ideas from interference by legislators or authorities within the
institution itself. This means that no political, ideological or religious orthodoxy will be imposed on professors and researchers
through the hiring or tenure or termination process, or through any other administrative means by the academic institution.
Nor shall legislatures impose any such orthodoxy through their control of the university budget.
This protection includes students. From the first statement on academic freedom, it has been recognized that intellectual

independence means the protection of students — as well as faculty — from the imposition of any orthodoxy of a political,
religious or ideological nature. The 1915 General Report admonished faculty to avoid “taking unfair advantage of the
student's immaturity by indoctrinating him with the teacher's own opinions before the student has had an opportunity fairly to
examine other opinions upon the matters in question, and before he has sufficient knowledge and ripeness of judgment to be
entitled to form any definitive opinion of his own.” In 1967, the AAUP’s Joint Statement on Rights and Freedoms of Students
reinforced and amplified this injunction by affirming the inseparability of “the freedom to teach and freedom to learn.” In the
words of the report, “Students should be free to take reasoned exception to the data or views offered in any course of study
and to reserve judgment about matters of opinion.”
Therefore, to secure the intellectual independence of faculty and students and to protect the principle of intellectual diversity,
the following principles and procedures shall be observed.

http://vega.oldwestbury.edu/mail/sawy erc.nsf/($Inbox)/980288402D3A642E85256FCE0052...

3/24/05

These principles fully apply only to public universities and to private universities that present themselves as bound by the
canons of academic freedom. Private institutions choosing to restrict academic freedom on the basis of creed have an
obligation to be as explicit as is possible about the scope and nature of these restrictions.
1. All faculty shall be hired, fired, promoted and granted tenure on the basis of their competence and appropriate knowledge
in the field of their expertise and, in the humanities, the social sciences, and the arts, with a view toward fostering a plurality
of methodologies and perspectives. No faculty shall be hired or fired or denied promotion or tenure on the basis of his or her
political or religious beliefs.

2. No faculty member will be excluded from tenure, search and hiring committees on the basis of their political or religious
beliefs.

3. Students will be graded solely on the basis of their reasoned answers and appropriate knowledge of the subjects and
disciplines they study, not on the basis of their political or religious beliefs.

4. Curricula and reading lists in the humanities and social sciences should reflect the uncertainty and unsettled character of
all human knowledge in these areas by providing students with dissenting sources and viewpoints where appropriate. While
teachers are and should be free to pursue their own findings and perspectives in presenting their views, they should consider
and make their students aware of other viewpoints. Academic disciplines should welcome a diversity of approaches to
unsettled questions.
5. Exposing students to the spectrum of significant scholarly viewpoints on the subjects examined in their courses is a
major responsibility of faculty. Faculty will not use their courses for the purpose of political, ideological, religious or antireligious indoctrination.
:

6. Selection of speakers, allocation of funds for speakers programs and other student activities will observe the principles of
academic freedom and promote intellectual pluralism.
7. An environment conducive to the civil exchange of ideas being an essential component of a free university, the
obstruction of invited campus speakers, destruction of campus literature or other effort to obstruct this exchange will not be
tolerated.
8. Knowledge advances when individual scholars are left free to reach their own conclusions about which methods, facts,
and theories have been validated by research. Academic institutions and professional societies formed to advance
knowledge within an area of research, maintain the integrity of the research process, and organize the professional lives of
related researchers serve as indispensable venues within which scholars circulate research findings and debate their
interpretation. To perform these functions adequately, academic institutions and professional societies should maintain a
posture of organizational neutrality with respect to the substantive disagreements that divide researchers on questions within,
or outside, their fields of inquiry.