Resolution on the College Budget and Planning Committee
Whereas major budget cuts affecting academic departmental budgets and faculty
development were made this fall without consultation with the budget work group of the
BPC;
Whereas revisions to the Strategic Plan, including the prioritization of campus initiatives,
new faculty lines, and revised enrollment projections are currently taking place without
consultation with the strategic plan work group of the BPC;
Whereas there is a long, documented history of faculty governance frustration with the
College’s budgetary process in general and the BPC in particular (based consistently on
lack of collaboration and information);

Whereas the administration has ignored key “concerns” and “suggestions” expressed by

the Middle States team regarding budget and planning practices at the College, namely

that 1. the “planning process. ..does not appear to be related in any way to the regular

operating budgeting process.” 2. “the budget should be a public document.” 3.
“Budgetary information is not widely distributed nor understood.” 4. “There is a lack of
trust among the staff and with the faculty.”
Whereas, the Budget and Planning Committee, as a committee, has never made a single

recommendation, has never issued a report, has never taken a vote, and has never
discussed a mechanism by which the Committee as a whole could express a
recommendation;

Whereas the BPC has not received, to date, all the information requested through the

Senate resolution of February 16, 2001 (including a copy of the College’s annual budget);
Whereas the BPC has not received, to date, budgetary information for any past year that
included complete and detailed reporting of both allocations and expenditures;
Whereas the BPC, to date, has not reviewed, analyzed or otherwise addressed the

College’s annual operating budget (which is separate and distinct from any review or
discussion of Capital Plan or Strategic Plan);

And, whereas the BPC has not proved to be a significant source of information for the
faculty or College community at large, despite the best efforts of the BPC faculty

members and Chair, who have served in good faith,

Therefore, be it resolved that the faculty withdraw its representation and leadership from
the BPC, effectively immediately, until such time that the full Senate votes to resume

participation, based on a new understanding of, and commitment to, a genuincly
collaborative process.