STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, April 13, 2018
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location NAB 1100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise
(M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Maureen Dolan
(Parliamentarian, M&CIS), William Gillis (Senator At-Large, Alt. Univ. Senator), Joseph Foy
(Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Jon
Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional),
Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Minna Barrett (FYE), Blidi Stemn (CE), Bright Emenike
(CP), Jingyi Song (H&P), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Shijian Li (PH), Jacob Heller (SY), Frank Sanacory
(CAP), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)
Senators Absent: Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Linval Frazer
(AC), Yu Lei (MMF), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Andrew Hashey (EE), Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Jillian
Nissen (BS), Deepa Jani (EN), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Lorenz Neuwirth (PY), Eric Hagan (VA),
Chris Hobson (ARPT), Llana Barber (LEC), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP
Inst. Adv.), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Calvin Butts (President)
Visitors: Jacqueline Emery, Amanda Shigihara, Anthony Barbera, Chris Notaro, Bonnie Eannone,
Ed Bever, Shalei Simms, Duncan Quarless, Penny Chin, Omar Estrada Torres
MINUTES
I.

Call to Order 12:35pm

II.

Approval of Minutes of Mar 16, 2018
• The minutes are approved by voice vote pending the following changes:
o On p. 2 in the SP update on the 2nd line in parentheses: Barbera misspelled.
o On p. 3 in the 5th bullet down in the middle states report: due April 1st

III.

FS Chair’s Report
•

Senate Parking Lot Resolution Submitted as Comment: The FS chair submitted the
approved resolution in response to the RFC of the State University Construction Fund on
the SEAF for the proposed parking lot.

1

•

•

•

•

•

IV.

Chancellor’s Visit: Thursday May 10, Save the Date. The Provost asks that faculty
prepare for a visit by Kristina Johnson who wishes to meet with faculty and
governance. The schedule for this visit has not yet been confirmed.
Executive Committee Meeting with the President, April 5, 2018:
o Zero Net Energy: The president is aware of the SUNY push for Zero Net Energy
and is supportive. The key issue for Zero Net Energy is the availability of funding.
o Equalizing Resources: the Strategic Plan is a mechanism for assessing and
addressing the equalization of resources. More information was requested about
the funding of the Math Learning Center and Shuttle Bus.
o Faculty Consultation: Faculty consultation is crucial and the Strategic
Planning process is an example of successful faculty consultation.
o Interim Administrative Positions: The EC reminded the President of its strong
support for using searches to fill administrative positions rather than relying on
interim appointments.
o 360-Review Process: The EC raised the issue of changing the assessment process
of units from self-assessment to a "360-Review" process.
Strategic Plan Process Update: The Plan has been approved and shared by the
President with the college: www.oldwestbury.edu/strategic-plan. Faculty governance
will work with the Office of the President to create and charge the SPAAR task force which
will create and charge the SPAAR committee which will be coordinating and monitoring
the implementation of the Strategic Plan. Action Item: Senators, please advise the EC
about your willingness to participate in the implementation process. Active faculty
participation will be crucial to the success of SPAAR and the Plan.
Faculty Compensation: The Executive Committee is discussing how to
improve the transparency and accountability of the mechanism for assessing faculty
compensation with regards to compression, inversion, gender, and other issues relating
to the equity of faculty salaries.
Assessing Faculty Governance: Stimulated by the Middle States requirement to assess
non-academic units the EC is reexamining our Performance Objectives and plans for
assessing governance in order to improve faculty engagement and the diversity and
productivity of Faculty Governance.
President’s Report

• The Strategic Plan (SP) town hall was held yesterday. It went well. Dr. Butts is behind the
SP and he will work closely with the implementation part. We will establish the task force
and the SPAAR committee. We will all be involved in spirited discussions about how to
implement the plan. Thanks to Anthony Barbera, Andrew Mattson, Kathleen Greenberg,
Duncan Quarless, and all those who contributed to the plan.
• Enrollment will be up. We have a 33% increase in applications and we have about 41%
increase in acceptances. We are one of the best-kept secrets in the world, but no longer
quite as well kept. Evan Rufrano is the new Student President. Congrats to him!
• Patrick O’Sullivan reports that there will be meetings next week to discuss enrollment in
Psychology and Biology due to the number of acceptances and the number enrolled.
Psychology has about 600 majors and Bio about 500 and they are rising. We are
discussing the best way to manage it.
• We are about 4% ahead of last year in terms of transfer applications.
• Selection for housing is now done with an online application process. This has been a huge
success and we will have a waitlist for housing for the Fall. Omar Estrada Torres states
2

that we have always had occupancy in Woodlands. Thanks to all who helped get the
application online. We may increase housing by 50% and this is a big increase.
• We are growing and we will continue to grow. We are not sure how we will manage the
growth. We will debate and discuss it in SPAAR. It is part of the SP.
• Middle states accreditation was submitted. Thanks to Jacob Heller for the large report
produced for assessment of non-academic units. We are confident we have met Middle
States expectations. We await response from them. Thanks also to Anthony Barbera.
• New parking is still on schedule and 2.4 million has been allocated for the project. The
plan is to deliver new parking spots with a connector road to follow in subsequent years.
This parking has been planned in 2 phases. SUNY received a report from Curtis Velsor and
they said we should move forward with the new parking. We need the spaces. Dr. Butts is
aware that faculty and students request spaces. We need to move ahead and get the
parking done. Dr. Butts promises that nothing like this will happen again unless it goes
through SPAAR with faculty consultation.
V.

Point of Information (Maureen Dolan, Parliamentarian)
• This point of information is meant to provide information about governance. The topic for
today is an overview of SUNY governance: the Authorities of the SUNY Board of Trustees,
and establishment on each campus of a College Council empowered by Trustees’ Policies
and Education Law. Maureen Dolan refers to details in handout. See attached handout.

VI.
•

•

CAP Report including Micro-Credentials (Frank Sanacory)
Andy Mattson announces that Gwen Kay is looking for people to serve on the SUNY-wide
committee for micro-credentials. Minna Barrett (previous University Faculty Senator)
comments they are looking for university faculty senate voices. They are looking for
faculty members who want to engage. Minna, having done this for AL, finds the process is
very open and consultative and it is transformative in comparison with other processes in
the past.
A micro-credentials proposal has been brought to CAP by Ed Bever. We cannot approve
something that doesn’t exist. How does OW incorporate micro-credentials or not? CAP
needs guidance and CAP does not want to rule for the whole campus. We want more
consultation with the campus. CAP asks for the EC to come up with a process to look into
micro-credentials. Should we have them and in what form? Maureen Dolan states that
micro-credentials are within the purview of CAP. When SUNY Trustees initially proposed
a Core Curriculum across all campuses, faculty governance led by UFS fought for local
faculty control of General Education curriculum, rubrics and assessment. On our campus,
CAP took up issue of general education by expanding its membership as approved by the
Senate. CAP will do the work, they just want more input from faculty. Faculty comments
that CAP cannot do all the work. Anything curricular needs to be approved by all the
faculty. The standing committees direct the work but they don’t do all the work. It should
be a mix from CAP structuring something for broad input. Evan Rufrano mentions we
should look at micro-credentials at community colleges. Students are behind it, to get a
certificate that will help them with job applications. We will set forth a process for getting
input for this. A Barbera states that in the past we did not have masters degrees and there
may be a precedent for how master’s degree was approved. The process might be similar.
Faculty states that since there is a SUNY wide steering committee we are not in the dark, it
is a collective process. It is very interactive in terms of getting guidance. The next step is
that EC and CAP will talk to put together a plan. Faculty asks what is the timeline for this if
3

E. Bever has a proposal already submitted to CAP? We should try to move quickly, but it is
unlikely we could do anything by the end of the semester. Perhaps by next semester.
Maureen Dolan comments that proposal to begin offering Master’s degrees was a multiyear process. CAP could not approve graduate degrees without Master Plan amendment.
We cannot approve something for which a process doesn’t yet exist. We should look for a
timeline that is reasonable and effective. Issue of micro-credentials is already in the SP as a
proposed strategy.
• CAP has a five-year plan and report. CAP has streamlined using a SUNY guide for assessing
undergraduate programs. We will deliver it to the chairs for dispersal. A curriculum map
is required but we don’t have it for every program. A. Barbera asks if there is a backlog on
some departments submitting their plans? Yes, probably. Middle States expects us to do
this, so CAP should be following up because there could be consequences for Middle States.
Previously we had to explain the ones that were not completed. We should make clear in
the CAP guidelines that there are consequences for Middle States.
• Many colleges use cognates to describe courses. We want to introduce this language.
Cognate courses satisfy a requirement for a major but are housed in another department.
We should assess how we want to use the cognate language. This is not fixed. We should
assess whether there is overlap between majors and minors. We looked at it and we made
a report which will be supplied to the Secretary for this meeting. When we count courses
for the minors, how do we count it? We looked at other schools and they all had certain
designations. We want to add this designation to the courses. Cortland and Oneonta have
similar proposals. Geneseo and New Paltz have something similar. We are just introducing
it now, and may have a resolution next time.
VII.

Old Business
A.

Institutional Advancement (Wayne Edwards)
o W. Edwards begins with a story. When he started at OW in 1998 or 1999 C. Wright
was VP for Student Affairs and one day Wayne was teaching in Media Studies and
Craig said Wayne should serve on the disciplinary committee. Wayne was not
interested. It wasn’t until several years later that Wayne had a better
understanding of how this machine works. 14 years later Wayne stepped into his
current role in institutional advancement. Wayne is also President of the college
foundation.
o The Office of Institutional Advancement works on donor relations, development,
stewardship, and alumni relations.
o Today we want to talk about scholarship recipients. The OW College Foundation
awarded 128 scholarships in 2017-18. Wayne shows statistics showing the
percent difference between males and females receiving scholarships. We need to
engage our male population more so they can benefit more from the scholarships.
Statistics are presented for scholarships by class standing and race, comparing to
the percent distribution of our student population at OW. This shows we need
more outreach to Hispanic and Latino students. The commuter and residential
percents are “spot on”; the percent of scholarships awarded is almost exactly the
same as our percent distribution in student population. Statistics are also shown
on the School distributions for scholarships.
o Upcoming events are shown on the presentation slide.
o Penny Chin, director of Alumni Affairs reports. The Office of Institutional
Advancement has been around for 26 years, and we have been behind the scenes
supporting the scholarships and faculty grants. We hope to grow as the years
4

o
o
o
o

o

o
o

o

B.

continue on. We develop a relationship with the faculty and with the departments.
We learn from each other. We will develop more relationships to see how we can
help our students and faculty. We are not a traditional college. Our alumni do not
look at us as a whole institution. They might remember certain faculty, certain
departments, but we want them to contact us where they might contact you faculty
first.
Please join us next Wed. when the former CEO of American Express will visit our
campus. The tickets have been reduced in price and the money will go to student
scholarships.
In a couple of weeks we will send out our annual faculty and staff appeal for
donations. It can be a small amount, not thousands, but $5 or $10 still makes a
difference.
Wayne says that faculty have the most impact on students, not our offices, it will
help us for faculty to help students remember the college. Encourage students to
be involved as alumni, not necessarily for money but for involvement.
Laura Anker comments that Hispanic and Latino students are not documented and
many of the scholarships are not available to them. This perhaps explains their
low representation rate in the statistics shown by Wayne. In the past we have
given dorm scholarships in kind that is not public money, but we discontinued this.
This is a concern in admissions that Hispanic enrollment is down.
Faculty comments that connectivity through departments is important and we can
have a systematic way for departments to manage the long-term contacts.
Departments are not systematic about this. It is just done on an individual basis.
We have to be willing to encourage more engagement inside and outside the
classroom since not all engagement happens in the classroom.
Faculty comments he will share with his students this information. The college
will catch up and alumni will tell us about their accomplishments. Contact Penny
with changes to student contact information.
Faculty asks if OW College Foundation has the capacity to increase scholarships?
What is the endowment and what is possible? Wayne has been in the role for 3
months and he knows the goal is more but he is not in a position to give a number
goal. We do not generate millions, so if we can all do what we can do, it will help us
get there. We are developing these goals. We are in the process of developing
advancement in the SP so we can align with SP with limited resources.
Faculty points out we need to track outcomes not only when students are here but
also when they leave. If you spend ¼ of class time linking through LinkedIn then
we can connect when they are no longer answer their OW emails.

Resolution on the Conduct of Senate Meetings (Jacob Heller)
o Jacob Heller was previously Chair and then he was Parliamentarian for a year after
that. He came back as the Sociology senator in the Spring. This resolution is to
focus the attention of the meetings. This is an attempt to make meetings action
oriented instead of opening mail type of discussion and taking up time.
o J. D’Ambroise comments that the documents requirement of one week prior would
have excluded some reports today. Jennie has already sent Jacob a suggested
revision of this part.
o Maureen Dolan comments that efficiency is important but can be at odds with
transparency and broader principles of governance. This has been an unusual year
with 2 special elections for pro-tem Chair. See the attached document where
Maureen has written up her comments in opposition to the resolution. She said
5

o

o
o

o

o

o

o
C.

that our Senate has been effective through commitment to open discussion, debate,
deliberative process and transparency – consistent with UFS standards and
practices. Yes, Senate composition (balance of tenured, untenured) is a problem.
Historically this was addressed through concerted effort. Maureen cites
improvement in faculty participation from 35% to 50% during the years she was
Chair. Words like “limiting” and “shall be restricted” are inconsistent with spirit of
openness. We do not want to sacrifice openness and effectiveness for efficiency.
M. Dolan is opposed to restrictive phrase, “rather than for open discussion“, since
open discussion is essential to transparency. She also notes that oral presentations
of written reports can provide important context and additional insight.
Faculty comments that Maureen put it well. There might be issues about the way
we communicate. We need to make sure we are open, but legislating this behavior
is not effective. When D. Quarless was Chair we passed resolutions on climate and
culture. How do we legislate climate and culture? This is meant to be a structured
town hall meeting. If we decide we want to restrict it, the Chair has the option to
restrict when people ramble. This is important for the community of governance.
Faculty states loving procedure and rules but the dynamic of how we connect with
each other is important. Perhaps positive language instead of negative language is
better.
Faculty comments that we have to look at the root of the problem, that folks with
experience are not involved. We need to look at where the problem comes from.
Quality of life starts with the way we socialize.
Faculty comments that she risks saying something different. She says there are a
lot of positive things in the resolution to encourage people to speak up.
Encouraging what the actions being taken are is a good way to formulate a
presentation. It is encouraging because showing action increases participation and
incentives. It is good to think about how we get debate. It was so heated in the
past that an untenured would not want to speak up.
Faculty comments that he appreciates the spirit of the resolution. He learned
something today when senate meetings were described as a town hall. It is
intentionally designed to have discussion. We should discuss what is the purpose
of our meetings. Senate was created 26 years ago. Things have changed over this
time.
Faculty comments that there is another aspect to the premise. There is a lot of the
resolution contents but what is the premise? The first Whereas is dealing with the
broader campus community. As Chair D. Quarless was proud to say the FS
represents all including admins, faculty, and students. This is getting lost in the
current discussion. People have things to do and we should respect their time.
When we deal with issues we can deal with them deeper. We should also have
good debate and we can get to the deeper substance of the issues.
Jacob comments that many faculty do not want to go to meetings because nothing
gets done. We can debate the specifics. The bylaws say the agenda should be
distributed a week before. The idea is that more prior information the better
informed for senators to go back to their department.
Motion to table is approved by voice vote with 1 opposed.

Applied Learning Task Force Proposal
o AL task force comprises faculty representatives with input from the University
Faculty Senator and the AL campus team.
o See handout which describes the parallel committees being recommended.
6

o D. Quarless states that once courses are tagged the reporting to SUNY is approved
through Sandy Kaufmann. We don’t know what info SUNY wants. We have been
advised there might be supplemental data. Looking at the last bullet on
responsibilities, there is a separation between the AL curricular committee in
addition to CAP and EC. Course assessment is modeled after general education
requirements.
o M. Barrett comments that we should qualify the process and how jurisdiction
should be defined. There is a lot that needs to shake out on a case-by-case basis.
o A. Barbera comments that the last bullet says that AL courses are assessed, but
departments or other committees do that. The AL component is what is assessed.
We should clarify.
o Faculty comments that it is helpful to keep the data. Maybe some of that would go
to an institutional assessment person when we hired them. It is a good place to
start. Perhaps there should be a rewording to state how it will relate to CAP and
LEC.
o The course is offered by a department, aren’t they responsible not AL? J. Heller
comments that there is no requirement, but if there were it would fit into the
requirement. There are other courses in this category. Given this need for AL
there might also be similar need for other types of courses.
o M. Dolan, Parliamentarian, comments that the bylaws allow for adding a standing
committee, citing Judicial Committee as example of process during past decade.
VIII. New Business
A.

Call for Nominations: Faculty Senate Chair
•
•

IX.

M. Dolan states that nominations must come from among voting faculty Senators.
Please email a list of senators and their tenure status. The Secretary will do it.

Call to Senators: Other New Business
A.
B.
C.

M. Barrett comments that this EC has been the most efficient and focused to the point.
F. Sanacory invites everyone to the final math talk on Wed during common hour.
L. Anker says there are a lot of students impacted by immigration. One student’s
mother is about to be deported. The student will be 18 and unable to come up with
tuition. You will be receiving an email for donations for scholarships.
D. D. Quarless says our campus is a site for National Prescription Take Back day April 28.
Also April 18 in the campus center atrium students will have a box and you can bring
over the counter or expired drugs, anything.
X.

Announcements

XI.

Adjournment 2:28pm

7

Point of Information
Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
Faculty Senate Meeting of April 13, 2018
The SUNY Board of Trustees: an Overview
Background:
• The State University of New York was established through Education Law in 1948.
• SUNY is comprised of 64 campuses: 29 state-operated campuses that include 4 university centers; also,
five statutory colleges (Alfred Ceramics and 4 colleges within Cornell) and 30 community colleges.
• The Board of Trustees is the governing body of the State University of New York.
• The Board consists of 18 members, of whom 15 trustees are appointed by the Governor. President of
Student Assembly serves as trustee with vote; UFS and FCCC Presidents serve ex officio without vote.
Authorities of the Board of Trustees (selected):
• Regulatory authority, oversight and fiduciary responsibility for entire SUNY system, including oversight
pertaining to the State University Construction Fund and to the SUNY Research Foundation.
• Authority in matters pertaining to the operations and administration of each state-operated campus.
• Power to appoint the SUNY Chancellor and System Administration senior staff.
• Power to appoint the President of each state-operated campus.
• Power to regulate the admission of students, and prescribe qualifications for their continued attendance.
• Power to regulate tuition, fees and charges.
• Power to establish new campuses.
• Power to award Distinguished Rank (e.g., Distinguished Teaching, Distinguished Service).
Committees of the Board of Trustees (selected):
• Executive Committee, Academic Affairs, Student Life, Finance and Administration, Research and
Economic Development, Charter Schools, Communication and External Affairs.
• Some Areas of Board activity since 1995: Rethinking SUNY, General Education, Public/Private
Partnerships, Levin Institute, Energy and Sustainability, Seamless Transfer, Micro-credentials.
Establishment of SUNY Governance Structure:
• University Faculty Senate: established under Article VII of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees,
UFS is the official agency through which the University Faculty engages in governance of the University.
o Authority of the Faculty: under Article X of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, the faculty
of each college are empowered to legislate and act as a policy making body in the performance of
its responsibilities as determined by the Board of Trustees, and in keeping with the standards and
practices of the University Faculty Senate. Old Westbury Faculty Senate serves as the deliberative
body for organizing and carrying out the business of the faculty, consistent with UFS model.
•

College Council: under Article VIII of the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees, and in accordance
with provisions of Education Law, a Council is established at each state-operated institution.
o Councils exercise such powers as provided for in Education Law, “subject to general management,
supervision, control and approval” in accordance with rules established by the SUNY Trustees.
o Councils develop strong relationships between their institution and local communities, and
promote campus and University interests. Councils have a leadership role in presidential searches,
and an oversight role in matters of planning, campus buildings, operations and administration.
o Statutory role in matters concerning students (e.g., retention, safety, residential life).
o Old Westbury’s College Council consists of 7 members appointed by the Governor, and the
President of SGA who serves with vote; Chair of Faculty Senate serves ex officio without vote.
College President, Provost and senior staff report to the Council, which meets four times per year.

•

Student Assembly: established under Article XVII of the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees.

Comments in Opposition to Resolution on the Conduct of Senate Meetings
(submitted by Maureen Dolan, Parliamentarian, 4/13/18)
The time and effort involved in crafting this resolution is appreciated. Efficient meetings sounds appealing.
I know efficiency is great for engines and appliances, but efficiency can be at odds with broader principles
of governance such as openness and transparency. I have several serious concerns about this Resolution.
Under the Bylaws, the development of the Agenda for Senate meetings is the responsibility of the EC.
The 1st Resolved statement is supportable because it is consistent with past practice. For many years,
reports of Standing Committees were regular Agenda items – not considered as Old or New Business.
2nd Resolved Statement: some Senators may already be aware that our esteemed Secretary (Jennie) has
initiated improvements in the process by which reports, presentations and summary documents are
submitted in preparation for inclusion on the Senate Agenda. I believe it would be helpful to allow our
Secretary to describe these improvements in her Annual Report to be submitted to the Senate. Most of the
procedural items cited in the 2nd Resolved statement are being actively addressed by the Secretary.
3rd Resolved Statement stipulates that “in order to be included for discussion at a Senate meeting, reports,
updates, or other presentations shall include one or more specific action items to be taken up by the
Senate”. This requirement is overly restrictive and as such, not consistent with SUNY Senate standards
and practices through which we derive our system of governance. Senate history shows that Open
discussion itself can be the meaningful activity that occurs in response to report or update or presentation.
This Resolution’s narrow focus on action items impinges on the Chair’s role as presiding officer. The
Chair has discretion in the Order of Business and in allowing discussion. Rather than impose limitations,
the Senate needs to be dynamic and resilient. We cannot foresee urgent matters that may come before us,
when discussion and deliberation can be highly relevant. Case in point: open discussion on Parking Lot
Environmental Impact was longer than scheduled because of the Chair’s discretion, given the importance of
matter under consideration.
4th and 5th Resolved Statements: I have serious concerns about proposed restrictions and limitations on
discussion and debate during Senate meetings. The Senate was established with commitment to openness.
Speakers are limited only by time – not content. A diversity of perspectives has always been encouraged.
Such is our commitment to openness – that Senators may yield the floor to non-Senators and visitors. This
Resolution would restrict open discussion and limit who can speak – contrary to governance principles.
Unless the Chair is clairvoyant and able to predict a speaker’s comments or perspective, proposed
restrictions on discussion would limit which voices get to be heard. That is contrary to openness and
transparency. Limiting discussion may lead to shorter meetings, but would sacrifice Senate values and
impede Senate’s overall effectiveness as a deliberative body.
I also note that Oral presentation of reports (to be restricted under 4th Resolved) can provide important
context and insight which might not occur if written reports were simply received and filed.
Improvements are always possible. But this Resolution, as written, would implement procedural changes
that are overly restrictive and inconsistent with our governance model. Therefore, I believe this Resolution
should not be approved.