University Faculty Senate: 185th Plenary Session – Spring 2020
April 17, 2020 – Virtual Session
Reports given by UFS President Gwen Kay, Chancellor Kristina Johnson, Provost Laursen
Major Topics the Plenary Session
2020-20210 Budget
•

The Governor’s budget is set. SUNY received some of the funding requested, such as:
o SUNY received $550 million for critical maintenance;
o $50 million per SUNY hospital;
o $2.5 million for EOP, campus childcare services, and mental health programs;
o PRODiG hires will continue to be funded next academic year (Chancellor Johnson)

•

NOTE: Community colleges’ funding model changed from “floor” model, based on the cost
to run campuses to fulltime enrollment (FTE) model. This is problematic because many CC
students attend part-time. Expected loss of ap. $18 million.

•

SUNY Admin is waiting to see what the budget and tax revenues look like before making
further decisions. Chancellor Johnson is recommending no personnel hires for the immediate
future. Top priorities for such hires should be safety and student success. Budget planning
guidance has been sent to campus presidents re: cuts in their campus budgets. According to
Chancellor Johnson:
o Best case scenario – no cuts;
o Base case – there will be some money cut from a campus’ budget (probably at least
10% minimum);
o Worst case scenario – a larger amount of money (up to 25%) will be cut from a
campus’ budget.

•

According to UFS President Kay, “no one knows how this will really play out”, and Chancellor
Johnson recommends campuses be very conservative “with every dollar” spent.

COVID-19: The Main Event – COVID-19 Issues / SUNY’s COVID-19 Response
COVID-19 took over SUNY system’s priorities this Spring, as Governor Cuomo instituted the
NY Pause policy and SUNY system shifted to remote learning.
•

Governor Cuomo chose SUNY Old Westbury and Stony Brook University as sites for
temporary hospitals spaces, or, alternate care facilities. Stony Brook is also another site for
COVID-19 testing.

•

927 students were overseas in study abroad programs this spring semester. 816 students
returned home between March 7th (students in Italy) and March 9th (students in Korea and
Japan). If warranted, they were first taken to South Hampton and SUNY Brockport for
1

social isolation for two weeks. The remaining 111 students studying overseas chose to stay
in place abroad.
•

SUNY made the decision to allow early graduation for medical students in late April so that
they can “join the COVID fight.”

•

50% of funding coming to campuses addressing COVID -19 matters and providing support
are federal funds from the CARES Act: Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (lobbied
for by SUNY and UC Chancellors Johnson and Napolitano). SUNY received $300 million
dollars (Chancellor Johnson). These funds have been/are being used for students, and any
resources they need as a result of COVID-19, including academic-related support, housing
and child care. For example: Tech support: 7000 laptops and 1800 Chromebooks were
loaned to students.

•

Across all SUNYs, except for graduating seniors, students are to be given credits for housing
and meal plans paid for this spring that have gone unused since students were sent home (or
for about half of the semester). Graduating seniors are to be refunded the difference.

•

Requirements for Excelsior scholarships this year have been “eased” to accommodate
COVID-19’s impact.
o Students do not need to complete 30 credits (for the academic year) to get their
Excelsior scholarship renewed. Students must inform Financial Aid if their credit
deficit is due to COVID-19 impact.
o NOTE: President Trump announced a three-month freeze on student loan
repayments for federal student loans.

•

Given the shift to remote instruction, NY State Education Department (SED) has “relaxed”
requirements for applied/experiential learning courses taken by graduating seniors this
spring, if the course is at least 50% online. Programs are also submitting proposals to SED
re: alternative activities that may substitute for approval.

•

Summer sessions will be mostly/totally online for many SUNY campuses. Some campuses
will have to deliver a heavier load to graduating seniors.

•

This summer 2020, Global COIL Commons program will replace Summer
Abroad/overseas programs, for students and faculty.

•

Many high school applicants have either not been able to take standardized tests, especially
SATs and ACT, or there has been a delay in receiving their scores. SUNY is using a special
admission policy this spring, where students without test scores will be evaluated looking at
other measures. (NOTE: The test-optional resolution passed by the UFS last year is still
under discussion by SUNY administration.)

•

As of April 17th (the day of the plenary session), 154 SUNY students, faculty and staff were
known to have tested positive for COVID-19.

2

Additional Concerns/Recommendations
•

Re: Academic Assessment: Any and all changes in our academic assessment procedures
due to COVID-19 should be documented and explained – including if specific assessments
did not occur.

•

Re: Tenure and Promotion: Given the cancellation of conference and workshops this
spring, the closing or limited use of research labs, and cancellation of summer research
opportunities, etc., due to COVID-19, there is concern over about the impact on professional
development. This issue is being discussed among various constituents, including UUP,
SUNY Provost, etc. Provost Laursen is working with UUP and SUNY systems on a draft
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on flexibilities of tenure clock, since “one size
doesn’t fit all”, and some candidates may need the extension but not others. (Laursen).

Other Business
•

Plenary Votes
o No resolutions voted on this plenary.
o Two votes taken: Election of sector representatives and re-election of UFS VicePresident (Keith Landa);
o Both votes were unanimous.

•

NOTE: Our First-Year Student resolution is still with Student Life Committee (SLC), which
is now surveying the other SUNY campuses re: their language for first year students. SLC
expects to put bring a resolution to the UFS at the fall 2020 plenary session.

Announcements
•

Your feedback (comments, suggestions, questions) is desired by UFS President Kay and
Provost Laursen regarding your experiences this spring.

•

UFS’ Student Life Committee also wants to hear from us – with any feedback, stories,
issues that presented themselves, etc. with regard to students and their experiences this
semester, academic and especially nonacademic. The committee is especially interested
in problems that arose for students, including negative acts directed towards Asian
students.

•

Numerous resources (links) were given at the plenary – to assist faculty, staff and
students. These will be posted on our website.

Respectfully submitted,
Laurette (Laurie) Morris
University Faculty Senator
3