Resolution for the Proposal for
A Minor in Community Action Psychology
WHEREAS, the Psychology Department proposed a Minor in Community Action
Psychology, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Minor would help students develop applied research skills in
studying mental health and individual and community well-being, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Minor would prepare students for a wide range of careers such as
nonprofit leadership, program management and planning, evaluation and assessment,
policy development, advocacy and consultation, health and human services, and
education, and
WHEREAS, the emphasis of a community-based approach and the focus on social inequality
and social change in the proposed Minor are closely aligned with social justice mission of
the College, and
WHEREAS, the proposed five-course curriculum consists of courses offered by Psychology,
Politics, Economics & Law, Professional Studies, Public Health, and Sociology, and
WHEREAS, all Academic Departments that would contribute a course/courses expressed their
support for the proposed Minor, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Minor is built on existing courses and thus requires no additional
resources,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the proposed Minor in
Community Action Psychology.

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), May 21, 2021
The Proposal approved by CAP on May 21, 2021
[CAP Membership]
Tejas Bouklas, Svetlana Jovic, Yu Lei, Matthew Lippert, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Sheyi Oladipo,
Dana Sinclair, Kerry Weir, and Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)

CAP Proposal Statement: Minor in Community Action Psychology
1. Minor: Community Action Psychology
Housing Department: Psychology
2. Purpose: Community Action Psychology is an interdisciplinary minor offered by the
Psychology Department that equips students to promote individual and community wellbeing through action and research. Through courses that emphasize lived experience in
an ecological context, analyze the causes and consequences of social inequality,
explore social change efforts, and apply theories and evidence to real world social
issues, the curriculum provides foundational knowledge and skills to build more
equitable and just community-based settings, programs, and policies.
The goal of the Community Action Psychology minor is to expand pathways and
preparation for students interested in pursuing careers in promoting individual wellbeing, empowerment, and mental health within community-based settings. Students will
learn how to apply research to analyze and address social problems at multiple levels of
analysis in a broad range of settings. This minor expands options for students who are
interested in a community-based approach to mental health and well-being, while
supporting the Department’s and the College’s missions to promote social justice and
equip students to become agents of social change.
This minor provides valuable preparation for students interested in pursuing careers in
nonprofit leadership, program management, program planning, evaluation and
assessment, policy development, advocacy, consultation, health and human services,
community-engaged research, human resources, education settings, and corporate
settings dealing with community affairs and outreach.
3. Demand: The Community Action Psychology minor expands the College’s current
offerings by emphasizing research with a focus on mental health and individual wellbeing. It also makes a unique contribution to the Department by having a more applied
and less individualistic focus than the current tracks in Psychology. This fills a gap in
between these areas, as it were, and expands what we offer to students and the types of
careers to which they are exposed. We believe there will be a strong demand for this
minor.
4. Curriculum: All courses included in the minor are existing courses, but assembled in a
manner to support four different domains: foundations, social inequality, social change,
and an applied learning capstone. New courses that were just developed for the
psychology major’s Social Psychology domain (Peace, Violence, & Conflict Resolution;
Prevention, Promotion, & Program Evaluation; Peer Support & Community Mental
Health) and Diversity & Social Justice domain (Psychology of Socioeconomic Inequality;
Psychology of Ethnicity; Sexual Identities & LGBTQ+ Psychology) are also included in
this minor.

5. Instruction: Courses for the minor are taught by the following full-time faculty members:
a. Psychology: Drs. Sarah Kamens, Melissa Kiner, Ashlee Lien, Erin Toolis, & Lisa
Whitten & contingent faculty
b. Politics, Economics & Law: Dr. Carolyn Cocca & contingent faculty
c. Professional Studies: Contingent faculty members
d. Public Health: Drs. Rahwa Haile, Chris Hartmann, Martha Livingston, & Sarah
Smith
e. Sociology: Drs. Jillian Crocker, Keisha Goode, Laura Limonic, Diana
Papademas, Ryoko Yamamoto, Gilda Zwerman & contingent faculty
6. Resources: All courses contributed to the minor exist in the latest edition of the catalog.
It is possible that demand for courses included in the minor could increase, which would
require additional sections to be offered for certain courses.
7. Administration: The minor will be managed by the Psychology Department, with Drs.
Melissa Kiner, Ashlee Lien, Erin Toolis, and Lisa Whitten serving as faculty advisors.

Community Action Psychology Minor
Sponsoring Department: Psychology
Faculty Advisors: Melissa Kiner, Ashlee Lien, Erin Toolis, Lisa Whitten
Community Action Psychology is an interdisciplinary minor offered by the Psychology
Department that equips students to promote individual and community well-being through action
and research. Through courses that emphasize lived experience in an ecological context,
analyze the causes and consequences of social inequality, explore social change efforts, and
apply theories and evidence to real world social issues, the curriculum provides foundational
knowledge and skills to build more equitable and just community-based settings, programs, and
policies.
The goal of the Community Action Psychology minor is to expand pathways and preparation for
students interested in pursuing careers in promoting individual well-being, empowerment, and
mental health within community-based settings. Students will learn how to apply research to
analyze and address social problems at multiple levels of analysis in a broad range of settings.
This minor expands options for students who are interested in a community-based approach to
mental health and well-being, while supporting the Department’s and the College’s missions to
promote social justice and equip students to become agents of social change.
This minor provides valuable preparation for students interested in pursuing careers in nonprofit
leadership, program management, program planning, evaluation and assessment, policy
development, advocacy, consultation, health and human services, community-engaged
research, human resources, education settings, and corporate settings dealing with community
affairs and outreach.
Requirements for the Minor in Community Action Psychology
Five courses (18-20 credits) are required for the minor. Only ONE of the courses required for a
student’s major may count for this minor. Courses will be distributed between the foundational,
social inequality, social change, and capstone domains with the distribution indicated below.
Additional courses may be considered with prior approval from an advisor in the minor.
●

Foundational Course: Select ONE from the group below
Students will be able to explain how macro- and micro-contextual influences – including
historical, cultural, ecological, community, institutional, and interpersonal context –
mutually shape individuals’ well-being, thoughts, and behavior.
○ PY3510 - Social Psychology
○ PY3530 - Community Psychology
○ PY4510 - Ecological Context: Theories & Applications
○ SY4400 - Social Psychology

●

Social Inequality: Select ONE from the group below
Students will be able to value diverse worldviews and identities, develop an awareness
of one’s own social positionality, think critically about how systems of power and

oppression operate in society and shape lived experience, and analyze the causes and
consequences of social inequalities.
○ CR 3117 - Policing Bodies
○ CR 4000 - Gender, Crime and Justice
○ PE 3750 - Politics of Race and Class
○ PE 4450 - The Politics of Gender and Sexuality
○ PE 4610 - Political Power and Social Class
○ PH 2900 - Black Lives Matter
○ PH 3600 - Introduction to the Social Determinants of Health
○ PH 4750 - Aging and Social Policy
○ PH 4930 - Immigrant and Refugee Health
○ PY 3710 - Psychology and Social Justice
○ PY 3760 - Psychology of Socioeconomic Inequality
○ PY 4730 - Psychology of Peoples of African Descent
○ PY 4740 - Psychology of Ethnicity
○ PY 4760 - Sexual Identities & LGBTQ+ Psychology
○ SY 3280 - Social Inequality
○ SY 3750 - Medical Sociology
○ SY 3800 - Race & Ethnicity
○ SY4500 - Global Sociology
○ SY 4830 - Gender & Society
○ SY 4850 - Urban and Suburban Sociology
●

Social Change: Select TWO from the group below
Students will be able to identify and understand how relevant macro- and micro-level
change efforts are used to promote social justice.
○ IR 3140 - Unions and Public Policy
○ PH 4600 - Health Program Planning and Evaluation
○ PH 4800 - Epidemiology
○ PH 4890 - Environmental Justice
○ PY 4350 - Peace, Violence, & Conflict Resolution
○ PY 4530 - Prevention, Promotion, & Program Evaluation
○ PY 4570 - Peer Support & Community Mental Health
○ PS 3625 - Nonprofit Stewardship and Development
○ PS 3675 - Intro to Social Entrepreneurship
○ SY 3700 - Social Movements
○ SY 4600 - Social Programs, Planning and Policy

●

Capstone: Select ONE from the group below
Students will conduct an applied research project to use empirical and theoretical social
scientific literature to address real-world social issues.
○ PY5510 - Senior Seminar in Social Psychology
○ PY5710 - Senior Seminar in Diversity & Social Justice