Sector Q&A with the Chancellor

University Center Sector

There are movements in Congress to politicize and/or defund National
Science Foundation sponsored scholarship including basic research, social
science research, and climate sciences. These forces wish to eliminate peer
review and replace it with a politically controlled process of evaluation.
What will you do as the spokesperson for the United States’ largest
University system to preserve the scientific integrity of federal granting
agencies?

We are beefing up our federal relations team. We are working with an
aggressive firm to get to the right people and craft the right message.
Alex Cartwright’s role as head of the research foundation will be helpful
in this conversation. Congress and politics might be beyond our reach. SUNY
is a member of  ACE which is convener of big six initiatives on this.

We applaud your support for positioning SUNY as an “economic engine” for
contributing to the economic progress of New York State. What will you do
to make it clear to our many stakeholders that it also has a crucial role
to play in producing an educated, healthy and ethical citizenry that can
contribute to the quality of life?

Every time we have convened someone in some way has challenged the economic
development role of SUNY in New York. These are not mutually exclusive
objectives. It is our obligation to care about quality of life of our
citizenry. Self-sufficiency is a big issue for everyone in the country.
There is a huge gap between haves and have nots is our moral
responsibility. If the state doesn’t get on its feet how in the world can
it support SUNY? We’ve moved from a $9 billion deficit to a one time
surplus of $5 billion. It’s a good fight to have. I think these two roles
are integrated. The entire business enterprise is telling us they want
smart, creative, teamwork oriented people, which is the basis of a liberal
arts education. We are grateful for base-aid for community colleges,
pleading for more capital especially for hospitals. Ventured into two
places – “Master Innovator” fund the governor. When is the last time you
heard us ask for $250 million over 5 years to bring star clusters of
outstanding faculty to come to Binghamton. Strategies like “Quantway”,
“Statway” and “Finish in Four” are examples of our proposed Completion Fund
- things that we can take from pilots to applying widely across the system.
We know what works, but we need finances to put the solutions in place ($50
million per year for five years to help students get to completion). That’s
our strategy.  To solidify the strategy, we are going to students to get
speak-outs. Where else in the country have students led the way to speak
out on a tuition plan? Farmingdale – was the first speak-out. There were
several others. We also had an alumni speak-out. We plan to bring a lot
more of them and maybe bring students to the budget hearing. (Transition to
presentation).

Recently the Comptroller’s audit of the Stony Brook TAP program has
resulted in a $4.2 million fine for disallowed TAP expenditures.  How will
you assist the State Comptroller and the campuses to better align financial
aid regulations that govern student academic progress (SAP) and TAP
disbursements with campus policies that establish academic progress for
degree requirements by the individual campuses?

We worked hand-in-glove with Stony Brook on the TAP audit. We worked with
the Comptroller and are hard at work for a statement which stacy H. will
draft to develop a resolution with other campuses. The outcome of the
discussions could have been more onerous. I’ll be glad to have her comment
more on that.

The current model of libraries with most of the funding for acquisitions
going to a few predatory publishers is unsustainable in the long term. In
response to federal mandates that federally supported research must be
published in open access journals and data be made publicly available, the
SUNY libraries must adapt to support both Open Access and Open Data. As
leader of the largest public university system what will you do to provide
adequate resources for Open Access and Open Data initiatives through the
SUNY libraries?

I’ve exhausted what I can say about open acess and data. We are looking to
get informed citizens of SUNY to clarify the issues and make timely
recommendations.

Statutory and Specialized Colleges
Thanks for the attention to Ceramics.

The Chancellor noted that discussions are beginning with Alfred University
and stated

that a new MOU would not be signed if it did not address existing problems.


Do you plan to lobby for changes to the proposed budget language to remove
curricular mandates and if so, how can we assist you?
The Chancellor expressed surprise that faculty feel unaware.  Presentations
on the efficacy of experiential learning have been going on for more than a
year.  The intent here is to get the State to assume some of the costs of
expanding experiential learning; there is no interest on the Governor's
part to intrude into curricular matters.  Note:this topic was raised by
other sectors and the response became more expansive as it came up
again...see other sector reports for details.


You have been an effective and articulate advocate for using the university
as an instrument of change. In our sector one of the most engaged and
community-connected units is the Cornell Cooperative Extension; their
budget was singled out for line-item cuts in the Executive Budget. What can
you do to assist?
Chancellor Zimpher reaffirmed the relevance and importance of the
Cooperative Extension and said she would speak with officials at Cornell.


Repeated budget cuts and increasing costs and chargebacks have affected all
campus but may have disproportionate effects on small campuses including
some in our sector. Enrollment growth as a remedial strategy is limited by
facilities or other physical limitations. What is your strategic vision to
ensure the viability of small campuses?
With a new director of Strategic Enrollment Management on board attention
will be paid to enrollment capacity on small campuses.


The recent OSC TAP eligibility audit at Stony Brook uncovered issues that
are likely to affect other campuses. Can SUNY develop and deploy automated
advisement tools to assist students in making course selections in ways
that maintain TAP eligibility. In the same vein we urge you to work for
rational exemptions to TAP eligibility requirements in ways that facilitate
timely degree completion in situations such as change or major or the need
for remedial coursework.
There are implications throughout the system from the Stony Brook audit.
We do not have adequate staff to be able to provide students with
appropriate advice in all cases. We do need to develop automated tools.


In our discussions we learned that as facilities are designed,
rehabilitated, equipped and furnished, faculty and end-users are not
consistently involved in design and procurement decisions with the end
result that user requirements are not met. Can SUNY, working with the
Construction Fund and the Dormitory Authority, develop procedures to ensure
that there is broad consultation during the design and equipment
procurement processes in the same way that new program approval requires
demonstration that appropriate governance processes were followed?

Chancellor Zimpher will speak with Bob Halen at the Construction Fund to
consider ways to ensure that there is participation by affected parties.

[pic]

Technology Sector

The Tech sector has a history of providing a successful college experience
for many of the marginalized students in NYS. To do this we must provide
remediation to a good number of our students. Current TAP restrictions
(Stony Brook’s misappropriation) and SUNY Excel’s performance measures seem
to be putting pressure on the ability to offer these courses. How will SUNY
increase its graduation numbers to 150,000 per year if TAP and campus
Performance Allocation Funding is going to be reduced if we continue to
provide opportunities to these students?

We can't do remediation the way we do it now. Remediation funding in SUNY
went from $75 million to $95 million a year of tuition for remediation. We
trying to find newer ways to diagnose remedial issues before students enter
our colleges. We need to help our partners in elementary/secondary
education. We'd like to get students up to speed faster.  We are working to
develop our own effective remediation strategies based on practices that
work. Many of our Community Colleges have programs that are successful.

Our goal is to reduce the need for remediation before they get there. We
need to change our HS.

The Chancellor did address the funding aspect of the issue.

We were pleased to see your proposal to require each campus to appoint a
Chief Diversity Officer. Diverse cultural competencies are valued by
employers and an important aspect of the educational experiences of
students. Since the majority of the tech sector campuses are in small rural
towns, it is important to hire diverse faculty that can teach these
competencies to our students. As you know TECH sector faculty salaries on
average are the lowest in the system. To bring in these new, highly
qualified faculty, we need to pay them much higher salaries than current
faculty. This creates a campus wide pay equity issue which is making it
difficult to attract, hire, and retain qualified faculty. What are your
proposals to bridge the gap in salary inequality and to improve the
diversity of Tech Sector faculty?

We are not moving quickly enough to keep up with the changes in
demographics going on in our communities. We need to ratchet up our effort
and we need to challenge our recruitment strategies.  

The Chancellor did not address the pay equity issue.

Your and the Governor’s push for experiential learning puts pressure on
campuses to provide internships and other real world learning opportunities
for our students. While Open SUNY seems to be providing educational options
to students across SUNY, SUNY Works seems to be organized to provide campus
specific student experiences. Does the Chancellor envision a SUNY works
data bank that will provide all students access to the  experiential
learning opportunities offered by ALL SUNY Works affiliated companies.

The Chancellor sees opportunities to include all students in programs of
experiential learning. We would like to use the state's experiential
learning initiatives to help create more experiential opportunities.  We
need to work on clearinghouses which provide matching of students to
experiential learning opportunity. 



Campus Governance Leaders

Shared governance Campus Governance Leaders are reporting an inadequate
level of and, in some cases, a complete absence of formal consultation with
elected faculty governance regarding the appointment and regular evaluation
of administrators at the level of dean and above.

What do you consider the appropriate level of faculty governance
involvement in administrative appointments, internal and external searches
for administrators, and their subsequent reviews?

Many campuses have met resistance from presidents while trying to codify
these procedures for administrative searches and evaluations through campus
governance bylaws

Would a resolution coming from the CGLs help you to encourage presidents to
actively engage with the process of codifying meaningful consultation on
their campuses?

Over the past five years you have shown a great commitment to shared
governance, not only in theory but in practice, therefore we anticipate
that presidential involvement in shared governance will be a part of their
evaluations.

What is your opinion about engaging CGLs in the development of metrics of
presidential accountability in this area?

Upcoming Voices will be a great way to frame how to get Shared Governance
of what should be the role in running universities.  Bill Bowen former
President of Princeton – tactically the time has finally come with the
development of Excels we will have an earnest evaluation of Presidents of
our state operated colleges – as we develop the context of the 5 year
evaluations – starting with those with longest time that we can develop
questions around shared governance.  We need to have sufficient questions
around shared governance in the five buckets.

She mentioned that the SUNY Voices conference coming up is a chance to
discuss this as a whole.  Finally the time has come, with SUNY Excels, to
start a good faith, earnest evaluation and review of presidents at state-
runs (and maybe community colleges).  She trusts that, as we come up with
the context for these evaluations, we can articulate questions that
elucidate shared governance.  There was no comment on a CGL resolution, or
involving anyone other than the UFS and FCCC presiding officers in
development of metrics.

Faculty and curriculum: Can you reaffirm that the curriculum is the purview
of the faculty not the Governor.  How will you elevate SUNY in the eyes of
the Governor and yet ensure that a mandate, such as experiential learning,
does not become a top-down initiative but instead a bottom-up development
of curriculum by the faculty?

Answer to the Specialized Colleges (paraphrased):  She did not see this as
a curricular issue rather as a way to support something that we are already
doing, as well as an attempt to raise funds from the State for an
initiative that students clearly think is very important.  She plans to be
more vigilant in her approach to this but clearly didn’t think of this as a
curriculum issue.

Answer to our question:  I don’t know how to assure you that this is our
idea and we need to get the Governor to like the idea and we want the kind
of investment that will give the opportunity to all of our students.  I
think it would be a big surprise that we think he is driving our
curriculum.  Things come with a cost – the cost of educating our student is
high and we need to say this is the student experience it will keep people
in the state and will allow the governor to invest in our programs.

Answer to the Comprehensive Colleges (paraphrased):  Clinical experiences,
nursing, social work, required clinical experiences – margin of students
who want more and aren’t in a program that applies.  What is an applied
learning experience – service learning, internships paid and unpaid, coop
models, working in a professor’s laboratory.  Don’t think we can move the
dial and increase these opportunities without money from the Governor.
Long way from requiring an experiential learning experience for our
students – need to be faculty driven.  The person leading this conversation
is being lead by a guy from Binghamton.

Response to Pete (paraphrased):  Here’s an opportunity to begin the
discussion on how go forward from here.  A lot of discussions already
started, but I don’t want you to start from ground zero.  We need to have
our career officers involved and our faculty to develop this initiative,
then, let’s T it up in a way that gets legislative investment in this
initiative.  We have got to get a greater commitment to move SUNY forward
and taking what works to scale.  I welcome the formation of a task force
because our students are very interested.  I strongly encourage a
diversified task force.

Open access journals: Publication in open access journals is often not free
and the fees are seldom trivial for authors. Can SUNY provide centralized
funding to cover author fees for our own faculty to publish in high-end
open access Journals?  And how will you help faculty publishing in open
access journals combat the tradition of Promotion and Tenure resting on
impact factors recognizing that publications in open access journals may
not be weighted in the same manner as traditional print publications?

Carey Hatch already told me that I needed to be better informed about
Libraries and Open Access.  Alex Cartwright is well informed about this
contract and the residual cut back and the cost of open access journals.
All that I can say is that  I’ve hard for two years from Beth Bringsjord
that this is a huge and complicated issue and that we trust that we have
UFS people at the table and I have to trust that Alex will find ways to
make it work.

Response to University Centers:  I think I’ve exhausted all that I know
about this topic – we need to gather together and get this right.  Need to
get as many informed SUNY citizens together and get this right.

Provost Alex Cartwright is pretty informed on this issues related to this,
and the costs associated with publishing.  This is a huge challenge, and if
UFS doesn’t have people at the table, we need to be there.  The Chancellor
did not feel comfortable addressing this any further in his place.



Comprehensive colleges

In your State of SUNY address today you stated that a goal was to make sure
each student will have an internship. Can you define the scope of exactly
what you mean by internship?

An internship is a curricular issue and a Gen Ed issue. Yet it would seem
that there was limited faculty involvement in making the decision and
faculty should decide curricular issues. Where was faculty nvolved?

Since our strengths as comprehensive college faculty is in designing such
courses that take into account costs, faculty time, student time and credit
issues, are you willing to convene a working group between volunteers from
our sector and System to operationalize this?

And speaking of operationalizing, what plans are currently in place and
what resources will be needed to make this goal real?

In terms of experiential learning, there is some of this idea in the 2010
strategic plan and we have been acting on the notion that finding real
world opportunities is something we should consider. 150 people convened to
discuss how applied learning would manifest and engage students. Testimony
from people in career services. Half of our student body always engages in
required clinical experiences, so we are looking at students who want more
but are part of programs that don’t necessarily provide it. Applied
learning experience is everything: volunteerism, service learning,
internships, laboratory work, and StartUp NY. We can’t ensure this without
getting the governor’s support. To the degree that we need insurances the
quality is there, we expect supervision, product, evaluation, fits with
curriculum. The resources are the oversight to make all of this available
to our students. The person leading the conversations is from Binghamton
and there is a lot of support for this idea.
How are we going to manage the next steps, because we are a long way from
implementing this. Opportunity to talk about defining resources, etc. and
she welcomes a task force, but doesn’t want to start from ground zero,
because there have already been discussions on this topic.

Health Science Sector Questions to the Chancellor

Thank you:
For initiating the Search for the UMU President following the Fall Plenary;
For support from the Chancellery for the SUNY budget submitted to the
Governor;
For the completion of the Stony Brook / Southampton hospitals affiliation.

Questions from Stacey Hengsterman’s January 21, 2015 Initial 2015/16
Executive Budget Summary:

Hospitals and Health Related Activities:
-          Level of authority provided to spend own revenue is under review
to ensure it will be sufficient to accommodate planned activities.
-          Direct State support for the three SUNY teaching hospitals is
reduced by $18.0M.
-          However, additional funding opportunities are being explored in
funding being made available through the Department of Health budget.
Hospitals
-          Funding for SUNY’s Hospital capital program was not included in
the Executive Budget. 
-          However, the Executive Budget does include $400.0M of capital
grants to hospitals or hospital systems that offer health care services in
an underserved region. 
-          The grants are for providers that that facilitate mergers,
consolidation, acquisition, or other restructuring activities to create a
financially sustainable system of health care.
-          In addition, the Executive Budget provides $1.0B to support
projects that stabilize hospitals and make necessary infrastructure
investments to access to community-based primary and preventative health
services in Brooklyn and create an integrated delivery system in Oneida
County.  
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------
For initiating the Search for the UMU President following the Fall Plenary;

Although initial attempt at forming relationships between Upstate and
Binghamton look like they are pretty much done she made it clear that there
is the expectation of Upstate and Binghamton will  talk about
collaborations because “partnerships are in the DNA of SUNY.”  Any Upstate
Presidential candidate needs to understand that.

What is your interpretation of the future and vision of health care based
on the Governor’s lack of financial support for the SUNY hospitals and the
capital grants to hospitals or hospital systems?

She did not have any information as to the $500M capital in the Governor’s
budget for hospitals as to what this means. She did think that the funding
for hospitals/health care in Brooklyn seems to be the focus.

Is the statement in the governors’ budget “level of authority….”
reflective of the governor’s endorsement of your previously raised ideas of
local financial oversight boards for the hospitals?

She did not have any additional insight to the Governor’s reference to
“level of authority.” However, she stated that SUNY is extremely interested
in pushing local governance boards with fiduciary understanding if not
responsibility. She acknowledged that this is being driven by issues with
downstate, and that there is a task force lead by Debra Sale to determine
the best way to provide oversight of hospitals and the role of hospital
boards at all the medical schools, without usurping the role of the Board
of Trustees.   The report is due in about 1 month.  She will ask Pete to
bring this to small group of the faculty senate for further discussion.
She did mention that there is something along these lines in place at Stony
Brook and that while their model was good but not as explicit as what she
would like.

She did state that we need our hospitals

2.  Is there an overall plan to expand health science education programs in
light of the establishment of the 2 new pharmacy schools at Binghamton and
Stony Brook?

She said there is no intention to add more Pharmacy schools.  She said that
the intention is to support the needs of our health related programs but
gave no specifics of future plans for this.