OVERVIEW

The American Dream is upward mobility—all children, regardless of background,
having a chance at economic success. As each generation enters the workforce, young
people are unable to earn more than their parents—and the trend isn’t reversing.
Compared to their parents, students today increasingly cannot aﬀord college, are
burdened with debt, work at jobs with few if any beneﬁts, and have no long-term
security.

Financial aid such as the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) is one step toward reversing
the trend. But the TAP gap and the underfunding of SUNY threaten students’ access
to education and their ability to graduate. Fully funding SUNY ensures that the state’s
future workforce, taxpayers and citizens can contribute to the productivity, quality
of life, and overall health of New York state.

MIND ThE TAP GAP:

Underfunding SUNY and the Fading American Dream

Fast Facts:

1

4

2

5

The TAP gap—the diﬀerence between
SUNY tuition and what TAP covers—is a
loss of more than $70 million every year
that SUNY’s 29 state-operated campuses
must absorb while providing a quality education.

More than 40 percent of students
receiving TAP attend SUNY. More than
one-third of students at SUNY’s stateoperated campuses receive TAP (plus the
tuition gap/credit that SUNY campuses forego).

3

In 1974, SUNY received $4,129 on average
per student in revenue (combined tuition
and state appropriations); in today’s dollars,
that’s more than $21,000. This is roughly
$7,000 less in revenue on average per student
than the current combined tuition and state
appropriations that SUNY campuses receive.

SUNY’s 2018-2019 tuition was $6,870;
the maximum TAP was $5,165—covering
only 75 percent of SUNY undergraduate
tuition. The TAP gap (tuition loss to SUNY)
was $1,705 per student receiving the maximum
TAP award.
The TAP gap is equivalent to annual
salaries for 800 to 1,000 new full-time
faculty. These additional hires could
increase advising, counseling, tutoring and
course oﬀerings to help students graduate—and
graduate on time.

Underfunding SUNY is extremely short-sighted.
But taxpayers will ultimately pay a bigger tax bill
in the form of higher public assistance and health
care costs. Employers have increasingly relied on
higher education institutions to train and develop
an ever-changing workforce. Now more than ever,
fully funding SUNY is necessary to ensure that New
York’s future workforce receives a solid education.