STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE FACULTY SENATE
Friday, May 3, 2019
12:20 to 2:30p.m.
Location NAB 1100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

Minutes
Senators Present:
Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CS), Dana Tomlin(Secretary/
Treasurer, LI), Michael Kavic (At Large, EC) Laurette Morris (University Senator), Peter Ikeler
(Senator at Large, APPC), Manya Mascareno (Senator at Large), Bonnie Eannone (Professional),
Ana Martinez (Professional), Runi Mukherji (SUNY Senator Alternate), Laura Anker (FY), Linval
Frazer (AC), Sara Williamson (MMF), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lisa Payton (AS),
Jillian Nissen (BS), Deepa Jani (EN), Jingyi Song (HP), Veronka Dolar (PEL),Chris Hartmann (PH),
Lee Blackstone (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Jillian
Crocker (TLRC), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC)
Senators Absent
Joseph Foy (Senator at large) Kathleen Velsor (Senator at large), Jon Kleinman (Professional),
Ashley Alvarado (SGA), Taj Ford (SGA), Priscila Ortega (SGA), Lina Gillic (EE), Camile Jones (CP),
Zenaida Madurka (ML), Seojung Jung (PY)
Visitors
Sheyi Oladipo, Duncan Quarless, Fred Fleisher, Jacob Heller, Helidon Gjergji, Chris Notaro,
Mervyn Keizer, Anthony Barbera
I.

Call to Order

12:25 a.m.

II.
The Parliamentarian noted a correction to Minutes of 4/5 and 4/12. The handouts
prepared by Executive Committee on “Process for Electing Faculty to the Presidential Search
Committee” were omitted in printed minutes of 4/5 and 4/12, but correctly included with
electronic version of Minutes emailed on Monday, April 30. The handouts are part of the meeting
record. Motion to approve the Minutes of 4/5 and 4/12 as amended was seconded and approved
by acclamation.
III. A motion to extend Faculty Senate v
oting privileges to all
Full-Time Faculty, in the matter of the special election of six faculty to the Presidential Search
Committee, was seconded and approved by unanimous consent.
IV.

Special Order of Business: Election of Six Faculty to the Presidential Search Committee
A. The 18 Candidates present made two-minute statements introducing themselves.
1

1. Laura Anker: she brings 40 years of college and community service with a really
profound commitment to Old Westbury’s mission. She was on the committee which
crafted the college’s original mission. We have a social justice mission, we as a faculty
are committed to this mission, and it is what makes old Westbury a special place. She
has been on almost every major committee, chairing ARPT and others. Old Westbury’s
mission has shaped her career and values.
2. Jermaine Archer: he first came on board as an adjunct in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina.
He was impressed by re-development efforts by the staff, since being here he is happy
to be a part of an institution that lives its mission. If he is elected, he is committed to
the college’s mission to uphold diversity and stuff
3. Tom Delgiudice: when he thinks about changing a president, he is not going to talk
about himself, but he thinks about is it an aspirational kind of thing or is it a damage
control thing. If it’s aspirational then you don’t know, you hope the president will do
things. If it’s damage control, then must have a president who has a team who respects
analysis, who respects the values of the college, someone who has heart, will be a
champion, believes in collaboration, see how these effects can play out across our
students and the entire campus. He is looking for a president who has those traits.
4. Sanja Cale: chairperson of special educations department, she is a product of the NY
public school system and educated at SUNY’S values context, whoever sits on this
committee, content and context are what we need to control
5. Ali Ebrahimi: this is exciting! To see this many faculty with one goal and one aim and he
has seen this before, he was very young when he first came here, he has grown up
here, he finished his PhD when he was here. To make it short, he wants to see a
president who will listen to this body. He wants to learn from his colleagues. The
learned lesson was to not be silent, speak up when you see something wrong, this
benefits everyone. That circle has to go around and around. He has been director of
TLC, he wants to get it back. Served on ARPT for 2 decades and FRCC, goal is to make
quality of life better. President has to be a better one.
6. James Fornaro: is a full tenured professor school of business, been on faculty for 16
years and promoted to full professor in 2015. He is a CPA spanning 4 decades, during
his time at OW he has dedicated his time to diverse service, supporting the school of
business’s growth, he has a deep respect for the college, and success is key. He wishes
to be part of this because the college deserves something, he has a unique background
that will aid in the choice
7. Karl Grossman: he believes his specialty in investigative journalistic reporting will help.
He says the new president must support the college’s mission. He started at Antioch
College in Ohio. Has been a reporter for many decades. Teaching investigative
reporting for 40 years, oldest class of its kind in the state. Also served on ARPT and
would be honored to be on this committee
8. Ashlee Lien: department of psychology, been here since 2013, came here because of the
college’s mission, anyone would be wonderful to be on this committee. She would like
to find a president that really shares the belief in our mission and can advocate for us
in our commitment to social justice. Put us in a position of strength
9. Xavier Marechaux: We all want someone who will fight for the university, fight for
social justice mission of the college. It doesn’t matter as much who is on this
committee, but what is important is that the six faculty work as a team along with the
16 people on the full committee. We should vote for a candidate as if the 6 of us are
one member, we work as a team as a faculty.
10. Bruce Marx: was not present.
11. Manya Mascareno: she has accepted the nomination as important as this committee
is. She cherishes and is honored to serve a college that serves a diverse population
2

that we have, she knows how faculty are involved, how faculty are involved in
governance and would like new president to be someone who advocates and puts
students at the center of the success of the college. He has to have the same passion
12. Laurette Morris: she has been here for 20 years, tenured in psychology. Was a
member of FRRC and chaired it, she is also now University Senator. She is devoted to
the mission and wishes to get the best person to represent our college. We are not
alone in going through this search process. There are at least 6 SUNY schools using
interim presidents or losing their president. She communicates with other senators
from other schools and feels this would be helpful in going through this process. In
addressing needs and so forth
13. Runi Mukherji: Has been almost as long as Laura, she endorses everything everyone
has said but wants to point out that she is also part of the experience of getting rid of a
president, she was the first chair of senate at the time, was through collegiately and
strength of those around her to be able to do what she did. What was the dream
woman, but to be able to argue that she wasn’t doing what we needed her to do, and
give voice to it was an honor and a privilege, to prove what we have always been
about. Product of public-school system in India. This has been a place off access for
her. She wants to be there.
14. Dana Prewitt: she has been here since 2015, untenured in sociology, very drawn due
to the social justice mission of the college. Her hope is to put what she has learned
about the community to use. To pick a president that shares vision of the college
15. Shalei Simms: she believes leadership matters and believes it’s the most important
decision we will make here in a long time. We need to find someone that understands
the depth of work that has gone into making this school and willing to push it forward.
Thankful for her to have experience on other search committees
16. Diana Sukhram: been here for 10 years. Director of graduate programs in school of
education, we are here because of those students, someone who understand who our
students are. Someone who is not afraid to tackle the bigger issues, someone who
understands leadership skills and execute them. Someone who can take what we have
and make it better, comes in with fresh ideas.
17. Lori Zaikowski: Lori couldn’t be here, a science colleague read her statement.
Department chair in chemistry, teaches a bunch of stuff…served on lots of search
committees. She looks forward to being able to contribute to search for new leader,
diverse perspective. She was a chair on the search that hired him and was great, did an
incredible job conveying the mission to him. In the time he has been with her she is
outstanding, standing up for faculty principles
18. Ryoko Yamamoto: here since fall 2008, not the freshest eye. If the search committee
needs a diverse perspective then she is willing to step up, the mission of the school
serving a diverse population and looks for president committed to mission. It is
important for her to look for someone that isn’t afraid to look at reality. To build an
institution that leads to the idea.
B. Three faculty volunteered to count the ballots: Veronika Dolar (SAS-PEL), Helidon
Gjergji (SAS-VA), and Sara Williamson (SOB-MMF).
C. Ballots were distributed. Instructions for completing and submitting ballot given by
Senate Chair.
D. Ballot Counting commenced after 10 minutes were allowed for completion of secret
ballots. Ballot counters retired to an adjacent classroom to check and count the ballots
assisted by Dinorah Martinez (Senate Secretary) and Michael Kavic (Executive
Committee). Senate business resumed during the count.
3

V.
Special Order of Business: Nominations for Faculty Senate Chair 2019-2020.
The Senate Chair appealed for nominations. No nominations were made. Email nominations to
Dana Tomlin – tomlind@oldwestbury.edu - (Secretary/Treasurer of the Executive Committee.)
Nominations will remain open until the election at the Senate on Friday 5/17.
VI.
ARPT Chair Chris Hobson presented the revised ARPT Manual and Resolution. The
resolution was accepted by acclamation for discussion and possible vote at the Senate meeting
on 5/17.
VII. CAP Chair Frank Sanacory presented 10 CAP Resolutions. For each of the ten resolutions,
a Motion to accept for discussion and possible vote at the Senate meeting on 5/17 was seconded
and approved by unanimous consent.
• Five Year Combined BA in American Studies and MA in Liberal Studies
• BA in Environmental Studies
• BS in Economics
• Minor in Physics
• BS in Physics (Program Announcement)
• Minor in Chemistry
• Micro-Credential in Business Taxation
• Micro-Credential in Estate, Gift & Trust Taxation
• Micro-Credential in Foundational Counseling Skills
• Accept New Guidelines for the Five-Year Review
VIII. Ryoko Yamamoto presented a “Resolution on a Study of IT Governance”. A Motion to
accept for discussion and possible vote at the Senate meeting on 5/17 was seconded and
approved by unanimous consent.
IX.
Announcement by Senate Chair of Election Results:
The six-faculty elected by secret ballot to the Presidential Search Committee are:
• Dr. Laura Anker (FYE-SAS-AS )
• Dr. Jermaine Archer (SAS-AS/MC )
• Dr. Thomas Del Giudice (SAS-PEL)
• Dr. Ashlee Lien (SAS-PY )
• Dr. Shalei Simms (SOB-MMF)
• Dr. Diana Sukhram (SOE-EE)
A total of 117 full-time faculty and senators voted. The votes were counted, checked and
recorded by three faculty volunteers: Veronika Dolar, Helidon Gjergji, Sara Williamson. Ms.
Dinorah Martinez and members of Executive Committee provided additional assistance.
X. New Business
− Jacob Heller: VP Liaison from Middle States was on campus, met with many different
people and Middle States co-chair, praised us for self-study design, and gave a green
light on the self-study to begin in the fall. Over the next week, people have been
selected to serve on the 8 working groups, with 26 persons chosen by the steering
committee
− Ali Ebrahimi- promoting FRRC mini workshop for next week.
4

− Barbara Hillery: Undergraduate Research day: thankful to all who participated. In
2020 OW will be the host. Tentative day next year is April 24th. A theme is in
discussion. Next year is 50th anniversary of Earth Day, so there’s a hint where it is
going.
− Question: can we get the word out early about the theme for next year?
− Member of Visual Arts department: theme for Spring of 2021 is “show and tell”, storytelling and visual.
− On behalf of Provost, Duncan Quarless wants to thank faculty for their curriculum
development, we are increasingly working on competition in this region. We attempt
to collaborate where we can, but on some level we are still competitive.
Adjournment

5