MEMORANDUM
TO:

Andy Mattson, Chair, Faculty Senate

FROM:

Frank Sanacory, Chair, CAP Committee

SUBJECT:

Micro-credentials

DATE:

March 9​th​, 2018

The SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force has issued its “Report and Recommendations” in
January 2018. Since then the CAP committee has received a proposal for a micro-credential
from the SPS (i.e., a proposal for a Badge in Non-Profit Management). For that reason CAP is
seeking guidance from the Faculty Senate.
The main questions being:
● Should we at the College of Old Westbury offer micro-credentials?
● If we offer micro-credentials, in what form?
● What would be their approval processes and oversight procedures?
We ask that the Faculty Senate review and offer suggestions to these questions for our College
through a committee or a taskforce being inclusive of stakeholders. For example academic
units and the registrar should be included in the discussion.
If micro-credentials do become an offering at the College at Old Westbury, it is CAP’s opinion
that they should go through a similar approval process as a minor that includes the CAP
committee and the Faculty Senate.

CAP and visitors to CAP at the March 9​th​, 2018 CAP meeting had a discussion about the
direction of the possibility of these micro-credentials and had many questions, comments or
concerns.
●

●

How do micro-credentials relate to the mission of the college?
○ Our College Mission states “dynamic and diverse public liberal arts college”
○ Our College Vision Statement includes “offering quality undergraduate and
graduate degrees.”
○ If we move toward many sections of adjunct taught courses, how does this
support social justice?
How do we handle

●
●

●

●

●
●

●
●

○ Credit versus non-credit
○ Curricular versus co-curricular
Is financial Aid available for these courses or credentials?
What form do these credentials take? Are they available for non-matriculating students?
○ There are graduate micro-credentials (for example: graduate badges at Stony
Brook) which seemed reasonable to some, but should we allow undergraduate
micro-credentials?
○ Micro-credentials may seem more obvious to for some disciplines over others,
especially at the graduate level and may be less obvious at the undergraduate
level.
○ Which disciplines at Old Westbury would want to pursue such micro-credentials?
○ If we allow undergraduate micro-credentials should we require that they are
connected to a Bachelor’s Degree program (that is similar to a minor without
devaluing any minor offerings)?
○ How do we manage the potential of micro-credentials competing with minors?
How can we support micro-credentials to become stacked into minors, and
subsequently majors?
What is the viability of running more programs here at Old Westbury?
○ Sufficient enrollment for these courses
○ Would micro-credential further increase student enrollment?
○ Strain on staffing and on academic resources
○ How would this affect faculty teaching loads?
Would a student’s transcript list three micro-credentials and a minor where the three
micro-credentials would be stacked to for the minor? Will this lead to a more seamless
or perhaps more confusing transcript?
Do we want digital badges? What are their costs and to manage?
Can we use micro-credentials as a method to reach out to community partners?
○ Can we develop a micro-credential with a community partner in mind such as a
non-profit organization?
○ What are the dangers of tying a program to an external partner? Does it present
a potential conflict of interest? Could procedures be put in place to avoid such
issues to support the development of micro-credentials?
Some noted that these micro-credentials could be used as a recruitment tool for
graduate programs.
Are there any data that would suggest microcredentials are helpful for students in terms
of gaining employment, graduate school entrance/acceptance, etc?