Process of Distribution for
Mission Review II Guidance Document

The Mission Review II Guidance Document arrived at Old Westbury at the end of
February.

Academic Affairs reviewed the document, determined members of the Steering

Comunittee, and selected the appropriate staff/faculty/students to respond to the
questions.

Mid-February the document was distributed to the selected members which
included: the President’s Cabinet; Kate Velsor, Chair of Faculty Senate; Ed
Bever, Chair of CAP; Marc Seybold, CIO; Sandy Kaufmann, Director of

Institutional Research; and President of Student Government, David Aroyh, in

order for them to provide input regarding the intention of the questions and who
should respond. In determining who would respond, we decided that the best

approach would be to use small work group committees in order to have the

widest circle of input from the largest number of campus constituents.

The

subcommittees would consist of faculty, staff, and students. Each of the nine

subcommittees had at least one faculty. Some committees had as many as three
faculty. The Academic Program Committee consisted of eight faculty and two

administrators. These committees met throughout spring 2004 and summer 2004.

The faculty committees involved included: CAP, ARPT, the Faculty Senate

Executive, and the General Education Committees.

A completed draft of Mission Review II requesting comments and edits was
distributed to the college community, including students, on October 7, 2004.

There have been 6 drafts prior to the final draft going out to the campus.

Since

distribution, we have received comments and edits from fourteen individuals.

Since the beginning of this process the Academic Vice President has met weekly

with committees. There were no meetings in August. We continued to meet in
September and October. Faculty Senate requested a later date for submission to

my office, in order to have a wider range of discussion, and will submit their final

edits on November 5".

I thank the following faculty for their contributions to the process: