FACULTY UNIVERSITY AWARDS COMMITTEE (FUAC)
To: All Full Faculty, Adjunct Faculty, Librarians, and Professional Staff
From: Drs. Alireza Ebrahimi & Lorenz S. Neuwirth (Co-Chairs), Faculty University Awards
Committee (FUAC)
Date: September 22, 2020
RE: Information and Deadlines for Submitting Files to FUAC for the 2020-2021 Academic
Year

The State University of New York (SUNY) provides annual opportunities for the College, Full
Faculty, Adjunct Faculty, Librarians, and Professional Staff to apply for SUNY-level awards
for Shared Governance, Excellence, and of Distinguished Faculty Ranks.
Information about the awards can be found on the following SUNY websites:
o
o
o
o

https://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/faculty-staff-awards/shared-governance-award/
https://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/faculty-staff-awards/distinguished-faculty-ranks/
https://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/faculty-staff-awards/excellence-in-adjunct-teaching/
https://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/faculty-staff-awards/chancellors-excellence-awards/

Note: Please click on the relevant links for the awards to read their descriptions,
guidelines and detailed requirements. Candidates must have completed a minimum of
three academic years of full-time appointment (years do not need to be consecutive) at
the nominating campus prior to the year of nomination.
Nominators need to notify FUAC by emailing the Co-Chairs of their intent to submit any
nominations as soon as possible so the committee can provide further guidelines to the
applicants for the specific award and how to submit the files remotely. Please contact Faculty
Senate Secretary, Dinorah I. Martinez, at Ext.: 3117 and martinezd@oldwestbury.edu as well
as FUAC Co-Chairs Drs.
Alireza Ebrahimi
and Lorenz S.
Neuwirth
(ebrahimia@oldwestbury.edu & neuwirthl@oldwestbury.edu) for all communications and
consultation to increase the transparency and clarity for submitting files for a specific award.

1

Below are a list of the four annual awards, the specific award per category, the number of
nominations that can be put forth by FUAC to the Office-in-Charge/President for review and
approval, and the deadlines for applicants submitting files to FUAC locally at SUNY Old
Westbury. (Note: Yellow = SUNY-level deadlines; Red = FUAC deadlines; Green =
Officer-in-Charge/President deadlines)
Shared Governance Award:
SUNY-level deadline Tuesday January 19, 2021
Old Westbury can put forth a total of 1 nomination per year across all 64 SUNY campuses.
Each College can nominate itself each year.
Shared Governance (SG)
•
Due to FUAC by Friday, November 20, 2020
•
Due to the Office-in-Charge/Presidents Office by Friday, December 18, 2020
Distinguished Faculty Ranks:
SUNY-level deadline Friday January 8, 2021
Old Westbury can put forth a total of 2 nominations per year across all 4 award categories
Distinguished Professorship (DP)
Distinguished Service Professorship (DSP)
Distinguished Teaching Professorship (DTP)
Distinguished Librarian (DL)
•
Due to FUAC by Friday, November 6, 2020
•
Due to the Office-in-Charge/Presidents Office by Monday, December 7, 2020
Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Adjunct Teaching:
SUNY-level deadline Tuesday November 10, 2020
Old Westbury can put forth a total of 2 nominations per year for the one award category
Excellence in Adjunct Teaching (EIAT)
•
Due to FUAC by Friday, October 16, 2020
•
Due to the Office-in-Charge/Presidents Office by Monday, October 26, 2020
Chancellor’s Excellence Awards:
SUNY-level deadline Tuesday February 16, 2021
Old Westbury can put forth a total of 7 nominations per year based on select categories
Excellence in Faculty Service (EIFS; 1 nomination)
Excellence in Librarianship (EIL; 1 nomination)
Excellence in Professional Service (EIPS; 2 nominations)
Excellence in Scholarship and Creative Activities (EISACA; 1 nomination)
Excellence in Teaching (EIT; 2 nominations)
•
Due to FUAC by Monday, December 14, 2020
•
Due to the Office-in-Charge/Presidents Office by Friday, January 15, 2021

2

Please note the following FUAC local SUNY Old Westbury Policies and Procedures for
reviewing applicant files:
1. In order to streamline the review of all applicant files, FUAC will follow the current SUNY award
Polices and Procedures guidelines for each award category.
2. FUAC will not accept incomplete files or files submitted after the aforementioned deadlines.
3. A comprehensive self-evaluation is expected that includes the arc of all activities submitted
relevant to the award beginning from the applicant’s initial appointment. This will be used by
FUAC to contextualize the merit of the applicant’s file when putting forth an applicant to the
Office-in-Charge/President for review and approval.
4. A comprehensive file adhering to the SUNY award specific Policies and Procedures is expected
including a review of the arc of all activities submitted relevant to the award beginning from
applicant’s initial appointment. This will be used by FUAC to contextualize the merit of the
applicant’s file when putting forth an applicant to the Office-in-Charge/President for review and
approval.
5. FUAC will not consider letters of support, either internal or external, that have been used for other
purposes. All letters of support must be specific to the award in which the applicant is seeking
consideration.
6. FUAC requires that the entire file must be created for the specific award application. The only
exception is if an applicant submitted a file and was not selected. In this case, the applicant may
reapply the next year without recreating the file anew and may include additional information that
has been completed/accomplished since the original application that was submitted. Internal and
external letters are acceptable for a period of two-years from the initial application.
7. Letters from other faculty in the applicant’s department are strongly encouraged.
8. All letters must be current (i.e., within the last two-years) regarding the award, except as noted
above under bullet 5.
9. Faculty that are currently serving on FUAC must not be asked to write letters of support.
10. The file must contain a table of contents.
11. The self-evaluation portion of the file must include and stress the applicant’s productivity and
philosophy of scholarship and creative activities, librarianship, research, teaching or service.
12. Since SUNY Policies and Procedures guidelines for these awards may be modified, any conflicts
between SUNY and the local Old Westbury Policies and Procedures above will be resolved by
deference to SUNY Policies and Procedures that are currently in effect at the time of the applicant’s
files submission. Please note and follow the Procedures for Faculty University Awards (Appendix
V) in the Bylaws. Copies of the Bylaws and Award Procedures are in the Faculty Senate Office or
can be obtained by contacting the Faculty Senate Secretary, Dinorah I. Martinez, at Ext.: 3117,
martinezd@oldwestbury.edu.
3