Professional Staff Nominations

Danielle Collins Groner
 	College Branding, Identity, Marketing and External Management Committee

As a member of the College’s Office of Communications and College Relations, and point person on all internal and external communications, I think my participation and insight on this Committee would be valuable.



Jim Shevlin

Professional Life and Development Committee

My interest in serving on this committee comes from many situations that I have been proudly through in my own life. First, as a former professional athlete the experience speaks for itself. I played professional baseball here in the United States and in Italy. I also had the pleasure of coaching division one baseball for about ten years (NY Tech and Fordham University). The interactions, life experiences with the student athletes was a joy and very rewarding for myself as well as the student athletes that I groomed to play professional baseball. The growth of the young athletes who have gone on to many successful careers with guidance from myself and the other coaches was inspirational. I believe this committee would be a perfect fit for me.



Stacey DeFelice

 	Diversity, Equity & Inclusion & Social Justice Committee (formerly known as the DEI Council)

As the director of Services for Students with Disabilities, I want to be sure ‘disability as diversity’ is always at the table in equity and inclusion efforts. There is still a lot of work to be done in fully integrating students with disabilities into our college community. For example, Latinx students are 50% less likely than any other cohort to be diagnosed with, disclose a disability and receive accommodations. Asian students are often reluctant to disclose a disability or use disability services because of cultural stigma. Students with invisible disabilities accommodations usage is often questioned by faculty whereas students with visible disabilities are rarely questioned and are sometimes accommodated above and beyond their needed accommodations. These issues, along with facilities inadequacies, such as double door and/or twist knob bathroom doors, inaccessible dryers and soap dispensers and uneven walkway terrain are some of the good work I would like to bring to the DEI committee.



Justin Spero

College Branding, Identity, Marketing and External Management Committee

This committee aligns with my day-to-day focus in my current role in the OW Print Shop. I have always had an interest in marketing and being a goal-driven individual, the ability to work and show results is very appealing. From a generic branding position, I have been involved with the integrity of SUNY organizations for almost two decades. I believe this committee will help me sharpen my skills and focus on OW branding and marketing. My experience and education will make me a good candidate for this team.



Amanda Gist

 Professional Life and Development Committee

My suitability for this committee is my current position. I assist with many of the procedures that come to our office (Academic Affairs) and reviewing reimbursement paper work for Faculty and Staff in our division for provost approval. I do not serve on many committees, but look forward to serving on this one.



Marleene Bhan

	Student Experience Committee

Given that our department is included on this committee, it's important to have an office representative. It's vital to listen and incorporate the needs of students. This committee will allow our department to collectively work with other areas in Student Affairs in addition to other offices to foster their career development and overall strive to enhance their student experience. Also, given the years worked here, I've also experienced the growth within Career Planning & Development including staffing, resources and services along with the evolution of other departments contributing to to the overall growth within the division. Therefore, I'm able to have a sense of history to include when reflecting upon the progress and continued efforts we aim to offer.



Jody Cardinal

	  Professional Life and Development Committee

I am self-nominating for the Professional Life and Development Committee. I have been a professional staff member at Old Westbury for over 14 years, and as Director of the Writing Center, I have consistently worked to improve the teaching experience for faculty on campus. I designed and implemented an innovative workshop program that provided in-class writing workshops to faculty by request. From 2009-2021, this program served 111 faculty in all 3 schools by providing 640 in-class writing workshops reaching more than 8400 students. In addition, I have created educational resources for faculty on "Responding to Student Writing," "Discouraging Plagiarism through Assignment Design," and "Managing Writing Assignments in Online/Hybrid Courses" and have served as an invited guest speaker during training for faculty teaching Writing Intensive courses. I would like to join this committee to continue supporting the professional experience for faculty and also to pursue the important work of improving campus life for OW professional staff.