STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLLEGE
AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, December 6, 2019
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location NAB 1100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

Minutes
Roster of Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (chair), Christa Devirgilio (secretary/treasurer),
Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At Large
Rep to the EC), Bonnie Eannone (professional), John Estes (Senator At Large), Helidon Gjergji
(Senator At-Large), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi
(FRRC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young
Park (Math & CIS), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez (Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Blindi Stemm
(CE), Christos Noustos (BS), Amanda Frisken (CAP), Lina Gilic (EE), Ashley Alvarado (SGA), Sara
Williamson (MMF), Jingyi Song (HP), Jillian Nissen (BS), Erin Toolis (PY), Laura Limonic (APR)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB),
Frank Pizzardi (VP Enrollment)
Visitors: Jacob Heller, Duncan Quarless, Cris Notaro, Manya Mascareno, Ed Bever, Joanne Spadaro,
Pat Lettini, Patrick Cadet, Sydney Williams, Anthony Barbera, Rafat Sada
Roster of Senators Absent: Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), William Gillis (University Senator
alternate), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Patty Harris (LE), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth
Morphis (SLC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH),
1.

Meeting arrival and sign in

I.

Call to Order

II.
-

III.

12:30 p.m.

Approval of Minutes for November 15, 2019
Motion to approve minutes was seconded. No corrections or amendments noted.
Minutes approved by voice vote, without dissent.

Chair’s Report
IT Shared Governance Task Force
o The Provost appointed Jacob Heller as the Administration co-chair . and Evan
Kobolakis has agreed to be involved. Faculty co-chair is still needed.
o The purpose of this task force is to come up with a proposal for a better process for
sharing technology on campus. Any interested faculty should email Jacob Heller.
- IT Governance Committee Working Group on the IT Strategic Plan,
o Goal 3 needs a faculty member to serve on this working group; OR,
o any suggestions or recommendations for how objectives should be improved:
▪ Objective 1 – Implement an ongoing IT governance review process;
-

Objective 2 – Align resources with institutional priorities, including optimal
distribution of function and services among core, distributed and edge;
▪ Objective 3 – Develop flexible funding models to ensure appropriate funding
for IT, ensuring IT's increasing contribution to the college's mission.
Electronic / Digital College Catalog
o An electronic/digital college catalog is being developed and needs faculty for a
committee to investigate platforms, best practices, etc.
o Email Jacob Heller if interested.
President’s Financial Cancellation Task Force
o Two faculty members volunteered to serve and their names will be sent to the
Office of the President for appointment: Dr. Mervyn Keizer & Dr. Lina Gilic
▪

-

-

IV.

V.
-

-

-

President’s Report
- President Butts was not present; however, an email was sent on December 5, 2019, a day
prior to the senate meeting, announcing that Governor Cuomo appointed a Chair of the
College Council and three other members: Mili Makhijani (Chair designation), Martha
Maffei, Theresa A. Regnante, and Phillip E. Elliott, Ph.D.
- A town hall with President Butts is scheduled on Tuesday, December 10 th at 2:30pm in the
Student Union. Questions/concerns can be made there.
Provost’s Report
(end 1:16)
Announcement by Associate Vice President, Pat Letinni (also Chair of the Financial
Literacy OW or FLOW program)
o meets once a month on Wednesdays in CC H311;
o here to promote the 2020 Financial Literacy Fair, April 1,2020;
o invite all to come; garner support and help spreading the word.
o 1800 new registrations of the 10 online courses offered; Emails promoting the fair
and in sometime in February the list of presenters will be sent out.
Enrollment Report (Frank Pizzardi)
Enrollment growth is the key to the sustainability of the mission of Old Westbury. Our
budget is planned based on enrollment so it is key that we work hard to keep enrollment
numbers up.
What does Enrollment Services do? admissions and recruitment, application processing and
international student enrollment services.
o Admissions and recruitment: application review is done here, all our marketing
and communications and recruitment,
- going to community colleges, high schools, career fairs, anything we can do to
promote Old Westbury.
- on the 22nd we hosted the Long Island Annual Guidance Council Fair, to draw
outsiders onto the campus so they can see it, etc. (Always a plus for us!)
- Marketing and communications: emails, mailings at home, and applications
are reviewed here.
o Application Processing: a little over 100,000 application-related documents a year,
including transcripts and letters of recommendation, are all processed.
o International Enrollment Services: manages and handles matters related to: study
abroad, agency management, student events and trips for international students.
Currently, we are slightly behind in applications for Fall 2020. A lower number of EOP
applications are mostly the issue.
Declining number of applications are anticipated:
o Generation z- we are at a period where it is flat, the growth rate will decline and will
affect institutions across the country. the population of 18 year olds drops about 3/4
of a million). everywhere is projected to be a decrease.

o from 2000- 2029 elite institutions will see an increase, they don’t recruit, they
choose. regional higher education institutions like us, will see a decrease.
Some colleges have merged with one another, small liberal arts institutions that are strictly
tuition driven are the institutions more likely to run into these problems.
We must brace for impact. Do we look to expand? Have we saturated our market? Pizzardi
does not believe so; we have to make sure we do that before going outside of our market.
We have to look at who and how we recruit.
o Our counselors are now assigned a specific territory: explanation of how we recruit
was presented.
o growing relationships at different high schools is a big help. Letting people know and
realize that Old Westbury is a viable option.
o Looking for students who will stay for four years. Focus on students who want to
come not just accepting anyone who applies.
- Start to communicate with students as early as 10th grade.
- Make academic offerings enticing to prospective students
- continue to look at different areas to grow in.
- Solicit help with recruitment efforts .(See attached: Recruitment Volunteer
Form)
o NOTE: Advertising is extremely expensive!
Student Success Update (Sydney Williams)
(end 1:20)
completion project, reaching out to students that have stepped out, to help them get closer
to graduation.
they had a group of students used in a sample. Some wanted to come back and were ready
and just needed some guidance. Some were not interested and two are ready for graduation.
it is a work in progress.
Some students just did not know what the next steps were after they indeed did complete
all the credits.

-

V.
-

-

-

Old Business
Presidential Transition, Search, & College Council: Update
(end 1:33)
Good news: We now have a reconstituted college council so technically we can move
forward with presidential search committee. Friday the 13th we will meet this person.
Serious thanks to Dr. Butts for keeping up with that.
The plan was that Dr. Butts would go on leave January 20, 2020. Some names have been
put forward for officer in charge but without a council that could not happen, the process
could not continue officially. (The administration is supposed to be very hands off but
because of there has been no college council they have been working
The names of potential officers in charge are confidential.
it is not unusual that in the last 2 weeks a president finds out who the replacement is
before he or she leaves.
we had been asking the president to do things that he was technically not supposed to do
and yet he may or may not have aided in the progress and getting names of the officer in
charge to replace him
Once Dr. Butts retires whoever we get will likely be with us till June, officer in charge is a
single semester, father that we must have an interim.
names could be people handed to us by SUNY who are designed for situations like this.
As far as Faculty Senate Chair knows, no names have been submitted to the Chancellor.
Some SUNYs have ended up with officers in charge that were internal, and others that were
not.
Resolution: STEM Building Addition and Renovation Project
(end 1:42)

-

VI.

two changes were cited by Jillian Nissen, Mold issues and other things in NSB, running out
of classrooms. it is one thing to have spillover classes in NAB or Campus Center however
these students need lab space.
this resolution is in support of the project as planned
o a motion approved and changes accepted;
o Discussion was open for amended resolution.
o Resolution was passed unanimously.
Resolution: Replacement of “Freshman” with “First-Year”
(end 1:44)
resolution was in the packet as “one year”, motion to change to “First-Year” was accepted;
o resolution was opened up for discussion;
o Resolution was passed unanimously.
Resolution: Academic Clemency Policy
(end 1:45)
21 in favor, carries unanimously

New Business
- FLOW: Financial Literacy Fair, 4/1/20 (Pat Lettini)
- Resolution: Open Access Policy
o Motion on the floor, was seconded and it was accepted into the record unanimously
and policy is attached
- Report: Ad Hoc Committee on Open Educational Resources
o report for the Ad hoc Committee was read by Joanne Spadaro.
o report was accepted by voice vote.

VII.
VIII.

Sharing of Concerns/Announcements
Adjournment

(end 2:20)
2:30pm

1