STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
           SPECIAL SENATE MEETING:  Faculty Governance Orientation

                            Friday, Oct 19, 2018
                           12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
                              Location NAB 1100

     *** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***

                Documents for this meeting are available at:
       https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Vice
Chair), Runi Mukherji (University Senator Alternate), Maureen Dolan
(Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Dana Tomlin (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), Peter
Ikeler (Senator At-Large, APPC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo
McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Taj Ford (SGA),
Priscila Ortega (SGA), Minna Barrett (FYE), Sara Williamson (MMF),
Katarzyna Platt (MMF), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gillic (EE), Lisa Payton
(AS), Camille Jones (CP), Zenaida Madurka (ML, HLCC), Veronika Dolar (PEL),
Seojung Jung (PY), Chris Hartmann (PH), Lee Blackstone (SY), Eric Hagan
(VA), Fred Fleisher (VA), Rose Muzio (CAP), Patty Harris (LEC), Ali
Ebrahimi (FRRC) , Deepa Jani (EN)

Senators Absent:  Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Manya Mascareno (Senator
At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional),
Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Jillian Nissen (BS), Jingyi Song
(H&P), Chris Hobson (ARPT) , Jill Crocker (TLRC)

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB)

Visitors:  Evan Kobalakis, Michael Kavic, Helidon Gjergji, Robert
Bednarozyk, Brian Schwirzbin, Claudia Andrade, Yu Lei, Dana Prewitt

                                DRAFT MINUTES

  I.  Call to Order at 12:41 p.m.
II.   Special Order of Business – There are not enough Senators present to
have quorum.  We need 19 Senators (half plus one).  We will count again
later in the meeting.  This item is postponed.  This item is revisited
later in the meeting, and quorum is established.

     A. The American Studies Resolution on Smart Classrooms is entered into
        the record.


     B. Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee Secretary/Treasurer

         • Dana Tomlin indicates interest in Secretary/Treasurer position.
           Since she was elected as At-Large Representative to EC at 9/21 FS
           meeting, the Parliamentarian states that Dana would need to
           resign as At-Large Rep to EC in order to be nominated for other
           position on EC. Dana agrees and is nominated to
           Secretary/Treasurer position by Jennie D’Ambroise. The nomination
           is seconded. There are no other nominations; the Parliamentarian
           closes nominations for Sec/Treas. position. Dana is elected
           unanimously by voice vote.

     C. Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee At-Large Rep.

         • There are no nominations.

III.  Special Order of Business: Faculty Governance Orientation

     A. Introduction to Faculty Senate (Andy Mattson)

         • Bylaws are presented on the screen and the authority of the
           Faculty is summarized.  The Executive Committee and the Senate
           represent the Faculty but the Faculty have authority.  Anything
           that affects matters of educational interest and research and
           academic policy are concerns of the Faculty.  The authority also
           extends to operational and institutional issues, in accordance
           with the verbiage in the ByLaws.  As governance we need to
           understand how decisions are made including budgeting and
           resource allocation.
         • Can students bring resolutions?  Yes, through their Senators may
           be best.  They can be also co-sponsored by faculty if desired.
           There is also a Student Life Committee through which resolutions
           can be brought and sponsored.
         • Our voice cannot be taken for granted and people have lost their
           jobs for our priveleges in the past.  Governance is one of our
           most important obligations.  Issues should not come from the
           Executive Committee “down” to the faculty, it should be the other
           way around.  Senate activities can be in the form of statements
           to state opinions, or resolutions which are more action-oriented.

     B. Introduction to SUNY Governance (Runi Mukherji)

         • The SUNY governance system is amazing and we can learn from its
           structure in order to get things done.  The structure and the
           origin of the university senate is summarized.  Our senate is a
           parallel structure to the university faculty senate.

     C. Introduction to Committees: Standing, Special and College-wide

         • Each committee summarizes their membership and responsibilities.


         • For additional information also see the Bylaws and the Faculty
           Senate website.
              o Senate Website Link:
                https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/home
              o Bylaws and Policies Link:
                https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/bylaw
                s-policies-etc-1

     D. Breakout Group Prompts

         • We talked about quality of life issues and social community.  We
           want a space to encourage intellectual collaboration between
           faculty including brown bag talks and workshops.  Faculty access
           to nourishment and healthy food is an issue and this affects
           community.  There is no platform to share our difficulties in
           acquiring resources.
         • We talked about allocation of resources and budgeting problems.
           We discussed quality of life issues including students
           complaining about mold in the residence halls.  Is there
           emergency funding?
         • We talked about signage on campus, and how to get around.  There
           are issues with putting in work orders through departmental
           secretaries and facilities including issues of cleanliness in
           restrooms.  There is no recycling on campus. Capital planning and
           the library as a collaborative space are issues as well.
         • We talked about the difficulties for students to register for
           classes.  The condition of the science building is an issue
           including mold.  We want someone in SGA to represent together
           with folks in science fields.  Freshman have lack of information
           about courses and they may stay longer than needed if they take
           the wrong course.


         • We talked about lack of transparency in budgeting.  Items get
           submitted and approved or rejected, but there is not
           participatory budgeting.  There is also no 360-degree review of
           administrators.  We need transparency in accountability and in
           budgeting.

IV.   Announcements

    • OER Roundtable on pedagogy and resources:  Thur Oct 25th common hour,
      in the red room.

V.    Adjournment at 2:35pm