Planning and Budget Committee (PBC) SelfNomination Results (6/2021)
Name
Fra nk
Sa nacory
(School of
Arts a nd
Sci ences)

Which
subcommittee(s)?
Budget Committee

On
SPAAR?
No

Please describe below your qualifications for strategic planning and budgeting. A halfpage response (2500 characters) is recommended.
I ha ve been a professor here a t the College a t Old Westbury now finishing my 14th year. I
wa tched how we managed to make it through the 2008 fi nancial crisis and observed and
pa rti cipated i n our growth over the last few years. With the birth dearth the horizon a nd
wha t a ppears to be a continuation of lowered s tate funding, we will need to adjust, be more
effi cient a nd be more creative in generating income. I would like contribute to this mission.

Mi ni CV
Pos i tions
As s ociate Professor of Ma thematics
Cha i r of the Department of Ma thematics and Computer & Information Science
Di rector of MS i n Data Science

Rel evant Committee servi ce
Stra tegic Plan Steering committee
Curri cul um and Academic Pl anning Committee chair
Aca demic Fields
Da ta Science a nd Ma thematics
Lorenz
Neuwirth
(School of
Arts a nd
Sci ences)

SPAAR a nd Budget
Commi ttee

No

I ha ve much experience with managing budgets related to research on college campuses
wi th national/federal agencies. I have also s erved on the Auxiliary Services Corporation
(ASC) Boa rd of Trustees a t the College for the last four years. I have a ti reless work ethic and
I a m deeply committed to ethical a nd honest work. If s elected, I will ensure that my data
a na lytical s kills a re utilized by the respective PBC a nd its subcommittees to address a
l ongstanding issue surrounding a lack of tra nsparency wi th the College budget. I will work
di l igently to hear all perspectives and help to identify the best solution for all parties to
ens ure that s uch decisions serve the good of our s tudents and College a t all times. I have no
i s sues with being the unpopular voi ce at ti mes when I want to make sure that people are
cl ea rly eva luating a n issue a nd fully considering all the constituents that would be i mpacted
by s uch budgetary decisions. Therefore, I think that I am well qualified to serve on the PBC
a nd/or i ts subcommittees.

Thoma s
Del giudice
(School of
Arts a nd
Sci ences)

SPAAR a nd Budget
Commi ttee

Yes

I woul d say my qualifications a re somewhat multifaceted.
Moti va tion and Commitment:
Fi rs t as a graduate of the s chool, a faculty member since 1985, a nd distinguish for teaching
excel lence my commitment to the mission of the s chool and its students while
understanding the need for evolution is firm a nd proven.
Budget and Planning
I woul d like to preface what follows with this. My contri butions to the college i n the planning
a rea in a very l arge part had to do with initiating, planning a nd overseeing our large capital
i nvestments from 2005 to 2013. At the ti me the ca mpus was perhaps in the worst condition
of a ny SUNY ca mpus a nd during this period we successfully turned that around. The work
I’m mos t proud has to do with my l eadership in executing these numerous Ca pital projects
tha t el evated the face of the campus. In that ca pacity I interfaced with SUCF, numerous
a rchi tectural a nd engineering firms, contractors a nd the va rious constituencies of the
Col l ege -faculty, s tudents a nd s taff. My moti vation was to ensure that our s tudents and staff
ha d first ra te facilities and could take pride in their workplace.
Whi le proud of that work I have witnessed more mixed results i n the College’s other kinds of
pl a nning coordination. In the Ca pital area planning requires homework, collaboration,

deci sions and execution. There is no room for procrastination or lack of follow throug h. I
enjoyed that work a nd the results that followed. In the larger College planning
context…s ilos, s uspicions a nd s ometimes just plain lack of i nterest in the process led to l ess
tha n desirable results i n my opinion. Nonetheless I authored the chapter on planning for
Mi ddle States 2010 a nd was co-chair for that s tandard for our 2020 Mi ddle States Review. I
a m encouraged by the new administration’s experience i n this area and see i t as a n area of
growth for the College.
Wi th respect to budget a nd planning I have served the college i n numerous capacities.
I ha ve s erved on budget a nd planning a nd the SPAAR committees both a s an a ctive member
a nd a co-chair of BPC.
Accompl ishments:
Served on executive committee on 2010-2015 Stra tegic Pl an for College a t Old Westbury
Served a s Co-chair on the Colleges first Ma sters Facility Pl an 2013-2023.
Propos ed a nd created the Ca pital Planning Office 2005 a nd served as Director of Ca pital
Pl a nning 2005 to 2013. In tha t ca pacity planned a nd coordinated ca pital projects valued at
over $170 mi l lion.
My res ponsibilities for these projects i ncluded their i nitiation, a dvocacy wi th SUCF ,
pl a nning a nd coordinating budgets, timelines a nd chairing program studies, coordinating
cons truction a nd partnering with ca mpus constituencies a ffected by the project.
A few of notable projects include:
New Aca demic Building,
Uni versity Police Building,
Renovation of Student Service Offices including Registrar, Financial Aid, Bursar, Residential
Li fe, Health Services,
Ca mpus Network System including backbone, fiber and building wiring,
Pl a nning a nd Budgeting Ca mpus HVAC s ystems a nd electrical s witchgear
Li bra ry Project a nd coordinated Phase One of construction Li brary.
Ca mpus Center Envelop Project.
Al l these projects were my direct responsibility delegated by Dr Butts. I enjoyed doing the
work a nd most importantly s eeing the difference it has made for students, staff and faculty.
Whi le I feel i mmense gratitude for having that opportunity my fi rst love was always teaching
a nd working with students. In 2013 a t the conclusion of the NAB project I requested to
return to cl assroom full ti me. However, my experience a nd concern for the College meeting
the demands of students going forward and maintains its historic mission remain a passion.
Ba s abi
Mukherji
(School of
Arts a nd
Sci ences)

Budget Committee

Yes

I ha ve been i nvolved wi th budgeting and planning issues for a t least two decades. I was on
the former BPC committee and was a co-author of the RABPC committee structure. I served
on the Operations Committee of the SUNY UFS and co-chaired it for two years. I coa uthored the budget planning committee document which was submitted to the President's
Offi ce.

Jea nne
Shi mizu
(School of
Educa tion)

SPAAR a nd Budget
Commi ttee

No

My experi ences and qualifications with respect to planning a nd budgeting i n higher
education has been the result of my work with the Teacher Opportunity Corps (TOC; 2016 2021). I wa s a member of the writing team and served as director and co -director during the
i mplementation years. TOC wa s funded by a n NYSED MBK (My Brother's Keeper) 5-year
gra nt whose goal was to i ncrease the numbers of members of under-represented minorities
i n the NY teaching force. I was responsible to create an annual budget of $324,934, oversee
expenditures; make budget modifications, as needed; maintain communication with NYSED
i n Al bany regarding the budget a nd program; a nd work with the Research Foundation (RF)to
ma ke sure that a ll expenditures by Ol d Westbury's TOC program met NYSED requirements.
We received the maximum allowable funding for this grant, which the rfp stated was
i ntended to support the education of 50 preservice teachers (interns). If, by Ma rch our
numbers of i nterns dropped below 47, we would have to return money ($6500 per i ntern
l os t) back to NYSED. In order to a void giving money back to NYSED and to plan for possible
a ttri ti on, we chose to support more s tudents. Almost all of the TOC i nterns received some
form of fi nancial assistance. With careful a nalysis of data from Financial Ai d a nd the l ocal
offi ce of the RF, we were able to fund an a dditional 15 i nterns in years 2 a nd 3* a nd return
l ess than 8% of the $324,934 i n these years. [*In Year 1, we did not receive funds until
Spri ng semester a nd could not run a full program. In years 4 a nd 5, the COVID-19 pandemic
hi t. We l ost interns.]

I recognize that my work with TOC i s not directly related to the work of the PBC. However,
they refl ect s kills and levels of understanding of working with State fun ding that a re
i mportant to the work of the PBC.

Roger Mayer
(School of
Bus iness)

Budget Committee

No

I a m nominating myself to the Pl anning a nd Budget Committee (PBC) a nd the budget
s ubcommittee with this post. I a m a CPA, l icensed in New York a nd Pennsyl vania, wi th
deca des of experience working with and teaching the budgeting process. Highlights of my
experience include:
• As a di rector of i nternal audit for a government public hospital, I participated a nd
moni tored the budget process from the development phase to assessing monthly va riances.
• Over the pa st 10 years, I served a s a director a nd treasurer for a Co -op apartment i n
Ma nhattan. I a m responsible for developing the annual budget and providing a monthly
a s sessment of budget va riances.
• I ha ve provi ded i nternational consulting related to budgeting. For example, along with two
col l eagues, I tra veled to Ethiopia in 2020 on a consulting mission. We worked with the
Mi ni stry of Finance to develop a strategic roadmap to align the national budget with the
a ccounting system that conforms with International Public Sector Accounting Standards
(IPSAS).
• Bes ides teaching budget a s an i ntegral part of our cost accounting class, I have participated
i n va ri ous research projects related to budgeting.

Jul i o
Gonzalez
(School of
Educa tion)

SPAAR a nd Budget
Commi ttee

No

If us ed properly, the budget is a primary i nternal control that a n organization ca n use to
a l ign s trategy a nd operations. If nominated to this committee, I will use my experience to
hel p guide the College as we serve our s tudents and pursue our Mission.
Over the yea rs I have had the opportunity to collaborate, consult, and direct va rious
i ni tiatives that directly a nd i ndirectly i nterfaced with both s trategic planning a nd budgeting
a t s everal i nstitutions of higher education. At Long Island University I worked directly wi th
Provos t Pa ul Forestell and the Dean of the College, Chuck Hitchcock, on s trategic planning
a nd budgeting a s it related to the initial accreditation of their programs in education, the
curri cular reva mping of Southampton College, and later, on its tra nsition to the main campus
a t C.W. Pos t. At Stony Brook University I s erved in an a dvisory ca pacity to Pres ident Shirley
Strum Kenny on strategic planning and budgeting regarding the va rious multicultural
i ni tiatives that the University was considering and implementing at the ti me. In more recent
yea rs a t Old Westbury, I s erved as Director of Assessment for the School of Education under
Dea n Rubén González, Interim Dean of the same School under Provost Pa trick O’Sullivan,
a nd faculty member, a nd throughout this ti me, I have contributed to the strategic planning
a nd budgeting processes as they have related to a chieving i nitial a nd consecutive national
a ccreditations, the development of the College’s and School of Education m ission and vision,
i ns titutional research initiatives, and the development of the first graduate degree offerings
i n education at Ol d Westbury. In a ddition, I had the opportunity to work on the budgets of
va ri ous gra duate i nitiatives a nd new programs, i ntramural a nd extramural grants, a nd
s everal academic program i mprovements plans as stipulated by the State University of New
York a nd the New York State Education Department.

Renu Balyan
(School of
Arts a nd
Sci ences)

SPAAR

Yes

I a m a current a nd new member of the SPAAR committee who joined only a few months
ba ck. Due to my a rea of expertise, I vol unteered hoping I could help a nalyze the data
ga thered a nd gain s ome insights to identify a ny hi dden patterns. However, due to my joining
the committee only recently, I have not been involved in the intricacies of the process,
procedures or had a chance to l ook at the kind of data that ca n be possibly analyzed.
However, I did get a chance to read through the strategic plan a nd i ts implementation and
the reports and I would like to make up to i t and play a n i mportant role i n the committee.
As I rea d through the Goals, I realized that in a ddition to analyzing the data (if made
a va ilable), I am involved in research a ctivities that ca n help achieve several objectives within
ea ch of those Goals. For example, I have recently written NSF a nd IES research grants and
woul d continue doing i n the future too, that would help build STEM research capacity i n the
underrepresented and minority groups for undergraduate and graduate students. The grant
woul d engage a nd motivate students in research activities. This grant would help a) foster
s tudent success by s trengthening their experience in college (while participating and
pres enting i n seminars, conferences and workshops); b) promote academic excellence by
upgra ding a nd expanding academic technology a nd facilities – because the students will be
a bl e to work on the l atest technology (infrastructure with GPUs a nd high processing power
ma chines have been re quested a s a part of the NSF grant) a nd curriculum to be updated as
per the ma rket demand; c) s trengthen institutional effectiveness by generating revenue for
the i nstitute and advance the technological effectiveness; a nd finally build on student
Di versity to foster respect, diversity, equity and Inclusion, because the NSF grant is
s pecifically targeted towards MSIs a nd will promote groups that a re underrepresented in
STEM.
I woul d conclude by sayi ng that I might be new to my job at SUNY-OW but I have nearly 2
deca des of experience i n academia, industry a nd research organization, as department head,
l a b in-charge, a nd mentor, a nd worked with diverse populations. I am familiar with a nd
understand all the nitty-gritty of these systems a nd what it ta kes to achieve success. I am
moti va ted, have the passion, zeal and am determined to work hard to fulfill the objectives
di s cussed above which a re part of the Goals i n the strategic Plan, given a chance – tha t’s
how we l earn by working with and l earning from the senio r and more experienced faculty.

Fets umRa hwa Haile
(School of
Arts a nd
Sci ences)

SPAAR

No

I a m deeply i nvested helping to ensure that the College become mission-aligned i n all of its
doma ins. I have done a tremendous a mount of work to ensure mission alignment i n terms of
equity i n hiring processes (in doing the bulk of the writing of the PRODiG resolution, in the
pres ence of considerable resistance, no less), justice in the treatment of students (joint
l etter on ra cial equity i n conduct processes), request for Columbus day to be named
Indigenous People's day, s peaking a bout ra cial justice on ca mpus multiple times (one during
ca mpus ML Ki ng Jr cel ebration, a nother during the Freedom Dreams talk series, which I
orga nized), and as co-Chair of PARITY and director of the Disparities Institute (which has
hos ted countless external a nd i nternal talks about health equity over the past decade). I a m
deeply committed to helping OW reach i ts high potential i n terms of mission -alignment a nd
excel lence i n education a nd cura tion of a positive a nd tra nsformative undergraduate
experience. I have also collaborated with multiple community orga nizations within the
regi on, a nd a m cultivating relationships that would certainly help the College raise its profile,
a nd l ive up to i ts potential to become a much needed beacon for economic a dvancement
a nd s ocial justice in Long Island.

Cha nte
Hope
(Li bra ry)

SPAAR a nd Budget
Commi ttee

No

At SUNY Ma ri time College from 2018-2019, I s erved as the Faculty Assessment Committee
(FAC) cha i r. As chair, I was charged to update/oversee the college's assessment
functi onalities a nd assist the Vice Provost of Institutional Assessment with the college’s
fa cul ty assessment day (FAD). I also a ctively participated in Ma ritime College's Strategic plan
by s ervi ng on two s ubcommittees, Champion Diversity a nd Inclusion and Achieve New
Hei ghts of Academic Excellence. Ea ch of these subcommittees’ was to i mplement, resource,
a nd propose new ideas on how their department could reach one of the college’s strategic
goa ls. For example, the two concepts presented by the l ibrary department were to develop a
ma ker space a nd improved a ccessibility a ccommodations for the s tudents.