State University of New York
2016/17 Enacted Budget Summary
Funding Changes:
The 2016/17 Enacted Budget provides a total increase of $12.0M in direct State tax support. State-operated
campuses support was decreased by $(4.7M) and Community College support was increased by $4.6M.
University-wide Programs (e.g. EOC, EOP, Child Care Centers) received virtually all of the increase as they grew
by $12.1M. There were no increases for Statutory campuses or the Teaching Hospitals. SUNY System
Administration Note that this only reflects funding provided directly to SUNY and does not include funding
made available in other areas such as tuition spending authority and indirect state tax support in the NYS
General Fund budget.
The capital budget for SUNY campuses is largely consistent with recommendations initially proposed by the
Governor in the Executive Budget. Systemwide critical maintenance funding for Educational facilities was
increased by $60M over 5 years. Old Westbury received $700K of this increase making our capital budget
$3.1M for the period. Of note is that the Enacted budget also included $1.46B for the SUNY Nanoscale and
Polytechnic projects.
Legislative Changes from Governor’s Executive Budget:
Item

NY-SUNY 2020

Summary
State-operated campuses will no longer be authorized to increase
Resident Undergraduate tuition beginning with the 2016/17 Academic
Year.
The Maintenance of Effort (MOE) provision Enacted with the 2011/12
budget, stipulating that State shall provide funding at a level equal to
or greater than the amount of funding provided in the 2011/12 state
fiscal year, has been eliminated.
Campuses continue to be responsible for the Tuition Credit, which
requires campuses to cover the difference between SUNY's current
Resident Undergraduate Tuition Rate and $5,000. This has been made
permanent.
University Research Centers retained the authority to increase NonResident Undergraduate tuition by up to 10 percent in 2016/17 only.

Minimum Wage

DREAM Act

Provides for a statewide minimum wage increase up to $15.00/hour in
NYC and adjacent counties, and $12.50/hour for the remainder of the
State. Phase-in varies based on location and size of business.
Legislation also includes a “Safety Valve” allowing for re-assessment of
proposed increases starting in 2019. SUNY estimates the cost of
implementing this initiative to be $27.4M.
Legislation proposed in the Executive Budget was excluded from the
Enacted Budget which would have allowed students without lawful
immigration status (that meet certain criteria) to be eligible for TAP
and other scholarships in NYS.
Page 1 of 2

Procurement Flexibility

Extends procurement flexibility, made available as part of the 2011/12
Enacted State Budget, to SUNY and the State University Construction
Fund (SUCF) in the area of construction, construction-related services
and regular procurement of goods and services.

Investment Performance Fund

The $18M included in the 2015/16 Enacted Budget was repurposed to
be used according to a Board of Trustees Plan.

Collective Bargaining

Clean Energy Workforce

No additional direct State tax support was provided for collective
bargaining costs. The $4.7M increase provided in the 2015/16
Enacted Budget for salary costs was eliminated
This program will be run by SUNY and will train a workforce of 10,000
to help make New York more reliant on renewables. Funded through a
transfer from the New York State Energy Research and Development
Authority (NYSERDA), $15M ($10.0M State-operated Campuses /
$5.0M Community Colleges) program funded by NYSERDA.

Early Retirement

The Governor’s bill which proposed significant increases and
differential premiums for future NYS health insurance retirees based
on years of service was eliminated.

DASNY Oversight

Establishment of the New York State Design and Construction
Corporation responsible for providing additional project management
expertise, monitoring and oversight on public works construction
projects in excess of $50.0M. SUNY and the Construction Fund are
assumed to be captured under the Board’s auspices.

Page 2 of 2