1

Presidential Search Committee
Faculty Nominee Statements
April 26, 2019
[All statements submitted as of 4/26/19. Two nominees chose not to submit statements.]

Dr. Laura Anker [SAS-American Studies/Media & Communications, Director First
Year Experience & CALL, Distinguished Service Professor, Tenured]
As a Distinguished Service Professor in American Studies and Director of the First-Year
Experience (FYE) and Community Action, Learning and Leadership Programs, I bring to
the Presidential Search Committee my 40 years of college and community service,
professional development and teaching, but most importantly my deep commitment to
Old Westbury’s historic social justice mission. I served on the committee which crafted
each incarnation of the mission, including the current one, which states
Old Westbury weaves the values of integrity, community engagement, and global
citizenship into the fabric of its academic programs and campus life. In an
environment that cultivates critical thinking, empathy, creativity and intercultural
understanding, we endeavor to stimulate a passion for learning and a commitment
to building a more just and sustainable world.
The mission further states that as a “community of teachers, students, staff and alumni
bound together in mutual support, respect, and dedication,” we dedicate ourselves to
Guiding Principles, each elaborated, of a “Liberal Education”, “Integrity”, “Participatory
Governance”, “Intercultural Understanding”, “Sustainability”, and “Social Justice.”
These are the values, together with the unique diversity of our students, that drew me to
Old Westbury in 1978 and that have shaped my life as a teacher, scholar, and community
activist. The child of second-generation immigrants and educators, I came in age in the
Civil Rights, Anti-War and Women’s movements, whose equalitarian, anti-racist and
activist educational ideals gave birth to Old Westbury and continue to make the College a
“special place.” At this challenging time in our history, when these principals are under
assault, it is critical that Old Westbury’s new college President shares these values and
provides leadership in defending and furthering them in her philosophy and actions.
During my long tenure at Old Westbury, I been active in Faculty Governance and served
on, or Chaired, many of its major committees and working groups, including the Faculty
Senate, ARPT, FUAC, Academic Policy, General Education (now Liberal Education ),
Curriculum and Planning, Student Life, Nominations and Elections, the Implementation
Plan for 2018-23 Strategic Plan, Applied Learning Taskforce, Orientation Committee,
Faculty Judicial Board, Childcare Advisory Committee, Women’s Center Advisory
Board, Pre-Law Minor Advisory Committee, Provost’s Council and the Retention
Committee, amongst others.
I am most proud of my leadership in designing Old Westbury’s award winning First-Year
Experience Program, which embeds the College’s social justice mission in its required

2

curriculum, emphasizing the civic and ethical, as well as academic values of a liberal arts
education. Working with faculty from across the college’s schools and departments, I coedited, with Maureen Feder-Marcus, the First-Year Reader, The Ethics of Engagement,
Educating Leaders for a Just World, the common text for FY1000 and CL2000, which
includes a 50 hour civic engagement placement with partner community organizations,
governmental agencies and schools. The first-year curriculum serves students from all
three of Old Westbury’s schools and provides Learning Communities that link FY1000
and CL2000 to Liberal Education domain courses, as well as introductory and/or required
courses for majors in all three schools. CALL won Old Westbury placement on the
President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll every year since its
inception in 2007 until 2016, when the Trump administration discontinued the award. I
have published peer-reviewed articles and presented papers at national and international
conferences on the importance of civic engagement and community learning for
retention, intercultural understanding and engaged global citizenship. My scholarship
focuses on the role of women and family in the migration process, including Women of
Courage: Jewish and Italian Immigrant Women in New York, with Rose Laub Coser,
(Greenwood Press, 1999). I was Project Director of the “Listening Project,” a community
study of Latino immigration to Long Island’s East End and led and wrote the discussion
guide for Study Circles on immigration, Diversity on the East End: What Kind of
Community Do You Want. I was also elected to the East Hampton Union Free School
District for seven terms, 21 years, and served both as its President and Vice President. I
also have served on the Board of Directors of Long Island Wins, an immigrant advocacy
organization, as the Vice President of the Eleanor Whitmore Early Learning Center and
on the Executive Committee of the East Hampton Good Government Group (GGG).
In my 40 years at Old Westbury, I have changed and so has the College, but I could not
have imagined the profound impact of Old Westbury’s diversity and mission on whom I
am and what I have contributed in my personal, professional and community life. I have
been truly privileged to serve, and learn from, an institution whose goals and values I
share, and whose students, faculty and staff have challenged me to reflect more honestly,
analyze more critically and act more forcefully in everything I do. By serving on the
Presidential Search Committee, I hope that my voice and commitment will help ensure
the continuance and growth of our “special place,” an institution of public higher
education, which will endeavor even more forcefully in the future “to stimulate a passion
for learning and a commitment to building a more just and sustainable world.”
--Dr Jermaine Archer [SAS-Chair, American Studies/Media & Communications,
Associate Professor, Tenured]
I was hired as an adjunct professor in the American Studies and Media and
Communications department in the Fall of 2005. The semester began the day
Hurricane Katrina made landfall over Louisiana and I recall being inspired by the
students’ involvement in the re-development initiatives in New Orleans under the
direction of Dr. Laura Anker. It was this same commitment to social justice and
service learning that drew me back to college after I spent a year away on a
visiting line at another institution.

3

When the American Studies department posted an announcement for a specialist
in African American history to commence in the Fall of 2008, I was anxious to
apply and thrilled when I received the appointment. I have enjoyed working with
talented colleagues who continually find new ways to mold students into
sharpened critical thinkers and competitive professionals.
Since joining the Old Westbury faculty, I have worn a number of service hats. I
have served on ARPT, the General Education Committee (currently Liberal
Education), and the Committee of Academic planning. I have also served on the
Executive Board of the Faculty Senate and on several tasks force, advisory boards
and ad-hoc committees.
If elected to this committee of high importance, I pledge to carefully review the
candidates alignment with the college’s mission to diversity, liberal arts,
community engagement and global citizenship. Thank you for your
consideration.
--Dr. Thomas DelGiudice [SAS-Politics, Economics & Law, Associate Professor,
Tenured]
Forgive me in advance if this is a little long. I’ve been here quite a while and had
the great privilege of doing many different things and playing many different
roles. Throughout, my guiding principle has always been how to provide a better
educational and community experience for our students, faculty and staff. I
believe in the College’s mission and what we have been building here.
My career has spanned several Presidents and taken turns I could have never
anticipated. However, it does seem those turns were often driven by the needs of
the College during its different challenges. I guess I feel like this is one of those
times. As our society gets more fractionalized standing up with a strong voice,
curriculum, competency and integrity will be characteristics our College and its
President need to reflect. I’m in nomination because I believe my varied
experiences working at OW will be helpful in evaluating candidates.
I have probably been involved in the OW experience in as varied a number of
ways as one can be: as a student in the late 70s when I was inspired by my
teachers’ and the College’s focus on social justice and on us students, as a young
faculty in the 80s and 90s enjoying my own work with students in and out of the
classroom and partnering with other faculty to rid ourselves of an incompetent
President in the 90s, and from 2000 as a faculty member working with a new
President seeking to repair the damage done and get OW pointed in a sustainable
direction. In the latter role I became very involved in the College’s budget and
planning, technology investments and was asked in 2005 to serve as Director of
Capital Planning. I also often served as chair or co-chair of planning committees
and initiatives and was responsible for providing narratives and evidence of our
plans and projects for the College’s NCATE and Middle States Accreditation.

4

From 2005-2013 as Director of Capital Planning I was responsible for
advocating, planning and overseeing design and construction of all major and
minor capital projects, totaling $160 million. Among the more prominent
projects was the New Academic Building, a complete renovation of the Campus
Center, a new police building and numerous infrastructure and technology
projects. In this role, I worked closely with literally all elements of SUNY and
OW including the President, his administration, faculty, staff and students, SUNY
Central and the SUNY Construction Fund. I also oversaw the College’s Master
Facility Plan 2013-2023.
I advocated for our plans with the SUNY Chancellor and the head of State
University Construction Fund and numerous individuals at the Construction
Fund, as well as many teams of private engineers, planners, architects, and
contractors. These were invaluable experiences for seeing what works and what
does not in complex situations and in guiding people and creating consensus. I
believe these capital and technology projects got us in the competitive game with
respect to facilities from a place that, for me and many who remember where we
were in 1999, was a sheer embarrassment and unsustainable.
As a student at OW in late 70s I discovered a place that left an indelible impact on
my views of our College, our mission and my career. I benefited from the
diversity of the student population and my teachers caring about advancing their
students. I was encouraged to investigate issues of poverty, inequality, and
societal change—issues in which I did work outside of the College too—by my
teachers. It was on their recommendation that I went on to graduate school at
University of Massachusetts, Amherst in 1980 and obtained my PhD in
economics. I model my curriculum and my teaching on the transformative work
of those who taught me.
My work leading up to tenure was on the class effects of international trade on
primary producing nations and revolutionary conjunctures. After tenure in the
1990s, problems faced by the school took up more of my time, but professionally
I became more involved in the new IT developments of 1990s. I served as a
trainer for the SUNY Central Training Center and received a number of grants
including for my work with Harper Collins.
But my love at OW and why I remain has always been the students and teaching,
both in and out of the classroom. It’s why I did the Capital Planning, and all of
the other types of service I’ve done at the College, to improve our teaching and
their learning. It’s also why I’ve been committed to organizing events for our
students on social issues percolating in our society. In those efforts I’ve organized
numerous multiple day teach ins and symposiums on issues from the wars in
Central America and Middle East, the environment, US Defense Policy,
Addressing Violence on Campus, the International Drug Trade, the Middle Class
Squeeze, Financial Crisis 2008, the 2016 Election, US Budget and Fiscal Policy,
and this year’s Central America in Crisis. They have included speakers such as

5

Barbara Ehrenreich, Ralph Nader, Daniel Ellsberg, Richard Barnet, US
Ambassador to El Salvador Robert White, Susan Meiselas, Mercedes Doretti ….to
name just a few. But also representatives of State Department, labor leaders from
as far away as Mexico to as close as Long Island, local political leaders and
campaign representatives, academics and journalists. In these efforts I’ve enjoyed
advising student clubs and working with many student groups, other faculty, and
staff.
I have to stop somewhere, so that is enough. Whatever the outcome thank you for
reading this.
--Dr. Ali Ebrahimi [SOB-Management, Marketing & Finance, Associate Professor,
Tenured]
Dr. Alireza (Ali) Ebrahimi has served on various faculty governance committees
for more than 3 decades. He directed the Teaching Learning Center (TLR) and
served on the ARPT for a decade. Dr. Ebrahimi is currently the Chair of Faculty
Rights and Responsibilities Committee.
Ali is the advisor of 5 student clubs that ranges from cultural, religion,
environmental, to business and computer, ensuring the clubs serve the diverse
needs and interests of our students, and the mission and vision of Old Westbury.
Ali is the recipient of Chancellors' Award for Excellence in Teaching (1993) and
Chancellors' Award for Research and Creativity (2006). Ali served as the Chair of
the Computer Information Science Department for three years.
As part of his service to the College and a strong advocate for quality of life on
campus, Ali served as the Chair of the Ad Hoc Committee for Parking Task Force.
The parking issues at Old Westbury was resolved as a result of the committee's
hard work.
--Dr. James Fornaro CPA, CMA, CFE, [SOB-Accounting, Taxation & Business Law,
Professor, Tenured]
I hereby nominate myself, Professor James M. Fornaro, to serve on
the Presidential Search Committee at SUNY Old Westbury. I have been a faculty
member in the School of Business for sixteen years and was promoted to full
professor in 2015. My professional background as a Certified Public Accountant
also spans four decades and I have been associated with well-recognized
companies.
During my time at Old Westbury, I have dedicated myself to excellence in
teaching, high-quality research and diverse service, particularly at the School of
Business level to support its growth. Above all, I have dedicated myself to

6

improving the lives of our students and am keenly interested in their success as
individuals and as professionals.
I have a deep respect for the College at Old Westbury and I recognize that strong
and effective presidential leadership is a key ingredient to our success. I wish to
be a part of this process because the growth, quality, and the reputation of our
college requires the right individual at the helm.
In this regard, I believe that I have a unique background that will contribute to
the proper selection of our new President.
--Karl Grossman [SAS-American Studies/Media & Communications, Professor,
Tenured]
With more than 50 years in doing investigative reporting -- indeed it's the title of
a course I teach every semester at SUNY/College at Old Westbury -- I would like
to be on the Presidential Search Committee. I believe my background in this
journalistic specialty will assist in the committee's work of looking into, of
investigating candidates for this key role at our college.
Moreover, through my decades at the college, I have been totally committed to its
mission. I believe in our mission strongly. It is critical, I believe, that the new
college president fully supports the mission and has a background that reflects
that this would be her or his commitment.
I know the students, know the faculty, know the administrators at Old Westbury.
I've been a professor here since 1979. I know the college well. It's been my life.
I have been on many search committees through the years including a committee
that selected an academic vice president of Old Westbury.
I would gladly serve on the Presidential Search Committee.
--Dr. Ashlee Lien [SAS-Psychology, Assistant Professor, Untenured]
In 2013, I joined the faculty of SUNY Old Westbury as an Assistant Professor in
Psychology. Since that time, I have engaged in a number of areas of faculty
governance and general campus service (e.g., Faculty Senate, TLRC, General
Education Committee, Research Aligned Mentorship, UUP, ad hoc committee on
teaching evaluations). I have been a strong advocate for campus assessment,
applied learning, and (most importantly) the application of our social justice
mission.
Our commitment to social justice and our diverse student body make us stand
out in the SUNY system and are among our greatest strengths. It is important to
protect our mission and core values as we search for a new President. As a
member of the search committee, I will be committed to preserving the spirit of

7

SUNY Old Westbury while looking for a President who will fight to place us in a
position of strength as the most diverse campus of SUNY.
--Dr. Xavier Marechaux [SAS-SOE- Chair, Adolescence Education, History &
Philosophy, Associate Professor, Tenured]
I am an associate professor of History and Education. Having been the chair of
the Adolescence Education department for 5 years and having participated in the
search for the Dean of the SOE in 2015, I believe I have the necessary experience
to represent and defend the interest of the Faculty of our college. The new
president should be at the image of SUNY Old Westbury and its population:
open, welcome to diversity and a strong proponent of the social justice mission of
the College. If elected, I will dedicate myself to working with faculty members on
the presidential search committee to ensure we are united and speak with one
voice.
--Bruce Marx JD [SOB-Accounting, Taxation & Business Law, Visiting Assistant
Professor]
I am currently a Visiting Assistant Professor of Accounting in the School of
Business where I teach the Business Law courses.
Prior to my most recent appointment in September of 2018, I was an adjunct
professor at the College for thirty (30) years.
During my thirty (30) plus years at the College I have been fortunate to watch the
college grow academically, providing our students with the academic excellence
which is the core mission of our I school. This is borne out by our students' ever
increasing ability to obtain accounting positions at some of the most prestigious
accounting firms as well as obtaining graduate degrees both at the College and
other institutions of higher education.
Being in the class room with our students has enabled me to come face to face
with our diversified student body and challenge the students, through critical
thinking, to address the law with both an open mind as well as an acute
understanding of how different cultures perceive the law.
As a practicing attorney for over thirty-five (35) years, I have represented and
counseled countless clients, including students, faculty and staff, of different
backgrounds and ways of life, in all aspects of the law.
With my thirty plus years of service to the College as well as my thirty-five plus
years of private legal practice I believe I am well positioned to assist the College
in its search for our next President.
---

8

Dr. Manya Dhar-Mascareno [SAS-Biology, Associate Professor, Tenured]
Teaching at SUNY College at Old Westbury (COW) for 12 years, has never made
me think twice about pursuing a career elsewhere. Working closely with students
and guiding them through their journey through the college has been the most
rewarding experience. COW prides itself on its engagement with and service to
the community, providing continuing education and lifelong learning for
traditional and non-traditional students. Teaching at this college comes with a
responsibility of understanding the diverse backgrounds that students come from
and the lack of preparedness for college and career choices that some have.
As an alumnus of SUNY system, I am an advocate for Public education. I value
the inclusive environment at our college I look forward to an environment that
embraces a culture of, collaboration, and cooperation among all constituents
across the campus. I value the practice of shared governance process into the
College’s decision-making process and will continue to support and promote the
value of diversity and inclusion throughout the College
As a member of the presidential search committee I will seek a candidate who
shares a Vision of COW someone who will support development and learning to
harness the potential of the College’s human resources. The prospective
candidate should have the passion to Promote and enhance this Institution by
establishing and maintaining cooperative relationships with external
constituencies including the community at large, governmental agencies, local
leaders, and the media. Seek support the College’s brand by highlighting its many
strengths through partnerships at the local, state, national and International
level.
Below is a listing of some of my important contributions to the college.
Part of Faculty Governance
Biology Department senator
2007- 2012
Senator at large
2012 -Present
General Education Committee Natural Science Representative
2008 -2012
Faculty rights and responsibilities committee
2012-2014
Appointment Reappointment Promotion and Tenure Committee
2016-Present
Director Auxiliary Service corporation (ASC)
2010-2014
Search Committees
Executive director ASC
Assistant vice President and Chief Grants officer February 18-March 18.
Director of Grants Management Research Foundation of SUNY: Feb 17March 17 & May 17 to June 17
Faculty search for two Assistant Professor Biology
Biology Fall 2011
Plant Biology July 2016-September 2016
Genetics and Immunology July 2016-September 2016

9

Bioinformatics and Computational Biology July 2018-Present
(Chair).
Member Institutional Animal Care and Utilization Committee 2008-Present
Health Professional Advisory Committee
Natural Science Building Committee
Radiation safety committee Chair 2009-2011
Maintained an Active Research Laboratory; Funded by NIH
Department of Health; New York State; Faculty Development Grant
Trained 40 students
Publications: Five Peer reviewed papers in International journals.
Founded Institute of Cancer Research and Education (ICaRE)
--Dr. Laurie Morris [SAS-Psychology, University Faculty Senator, Associate Professor,
Tenured]
I am submitting my name in nomination for a seat on the Old Westbury
President's Search Committee. I have been here at Old Westbury for nearly 20
years. Like other search committee nominees, I have a deep love of this place,
subscribe fully to our mission, am devoted to our students, and want the best for
Old Westbury's future. I bridge the gap in terms of institutional history, having
been here long enough relative to our newer faculty members to have seen a few
things, but not as long as more senior faculty (who have seen even more
things). I would like to bring my knowledge and understanding to the search
committee process.
In addition, I think all SUNY campuses going through a search process of this
magnitude/importance should have their University Faculty Senator as a
member of the search team. Senators have opportunities to acquire additional
knowledge/understanding that may be important and useful to the search
process not readily available to most of our governing body. This would include
understanding of how the search process itself could be influenced at (or by)
higher levels within SUNY System, (including the Board of Trustees, and the
Governor), as well as how other campuses have dealt with such a search
process. Indeed, at the Spring plenary a couple of weeks ago, UFS President Kay
revealed that six of us comprehensive colleges will have no president/interim
presidents by the end of the calendar year. So, we are not alone in this. Campus
senators have multiple opportunities to communicate with each other to discuss
matters of importance, share actions used to address such matters that were
effective (or not), and even strategize as a group (all of which can be done
formally and informally at plenary sessions, as well as electronically in-between
plenaries).
Thank you for your consideration.
---

10

Dr. B. Runi Mukherji [SAS-Psychology, Professor, Tenured]
I have been a faculty member in the Department of Psychology at SUNY Old
Westbury since 1981. I am also an alumna of SUNY, having done my Ph.D. there.
So I consider myself a true child and beneficiary of of the SUNY system.
I was told by my mentor at Stony Brook to apply to Old Westbury when they were
advertising because even then, Old Westbury was seen as the place where social
justice was a living, breathing, force that animated its faculty, student
recruitment, and curriculum. At that time, I was the only student of color (and
the only woman! in my program at Stony Brook). One could become snow blind
looking out across the students in one’s classroom, so the thought of going to a
place where there were others who looked like me, seemed like a good thing to
try. Once, I came for my interview, I was hooked. Half the faculty interviewing
me, were women! Coming from the Psychology Department at Stony Brook,
where, at the time, only three of the twenty faculty were women was an amazing
experience!
Soon after being hired, Samuel von Winbush, Gloria Young Sing, and Naomi
Rosenthal plucked me out of the ranks and encouraged me to become active in
governance. Von Winbush nominated me to replace him as SUNY Senator which
I did, and served for two terms, and was an active member of several SUNY-wide
committees, including the Governance Committee, the General education, and I
co-chaired the Operations Committee for four years. We revamped the Budget
Handbook, which is still in use today. I also served on the SUNY Provost’s
Advisory Council for several years, was on the General Education Committee,
which crafted the SUNY-wide General Education requirements, and later on the
General Education Assessment Review committee (GEAR) which oversaw the
SUNY-wide implementation of the General Education requirements SUNY-wide.
The list goes on, but suffice to say that for the years of service to the University
Faculty Senate, I was awarded the Ram Chugh Service Award of the UFS.
In parallel with those activities, I maintained an active role in governance on
campus. With a lot of help from Steve Kirkpatrick who was a reference Librarian
at the time, a group of us put together our first set of By Laws for the Senate
structure which was adopted, and replaced the Town Hall meetings which was
the model of governance at the time. I became the first Chair of our first Senate,
taking a leadership role during very “interesting” times. It was the time when the
then President re-trenched the Music and Dance Department. Enough said. I
should also mention that I served as the Director of General Education for nearly
a decade, and Chaired the Department of Psychology for almost as long. I have
also, in the role as SUNY Senator for three terms, served on the Executive
Committee of the Senate for well over a decade.
This is more than the few lines that were asked for, but I felt it was important to
remind those that might not remember, how active and involved I have been in
campus and governance activities for the nearly four decades I have been on this

11

campus. It is a place I care about deeply and it really is “my special place”
(although this is a slogan not used much anymore!).
The selection of a new President is the most important activity that any of us in
this campus community could ever engage in. Having been so much of its past,
and this being such an important activity in the present, I would feel privileged to
be able to work on securing its stability for the future.
If there is any further information that I could supply you, I hope that you will
not hesitate to let me know.
---

Dr. Dana Prewitt [SAS-Sociology, Assistant Professor, Untenured]
I am relatively new to Old Westbury; having joined the faculty in 2015. I was
most drawn to the social justice mission of the College, and the commitment to
providing an extremely diverse group of students with a quality education. In my
four years at Old Westbury, I have sought to get to know the broader campus
community in a variety of ways. I have had the privilege to serve on the Liberal
Education Committee for several years, which has deepened my understanding of
our students’ curricular experiences and needs. I have also served on the Student
Life Committee, and as a faculty advisor of a student club. These experiences,
along with teaching, mentoring, and advising, have given me invaluable
perspective of our students’ needs. To serve on the Presidential Search
Committee would allow me to put what I have learned about the campus
community to use in a way that would shape our future for decades to come.
--Dr. Shalei Simms [SOB-Management, Marketing & Finance, Director SOB Graduate
Programs, Associate Professor, Tenured]
My name is Shalei Simms and I accept the nomination to serve on the
presidential search committee. I have a great deal of experience with the search
process as I have served on both faculty and administrative searches, chairing a
few of those committees as well. In addition to my service to the College, I am
presently serving on a CEO search committee for a large credit union. The
selection of new community members is a significant responsibility and, if
chosen, I will do my best to represent the interests of the College’s stakeholders
as we search for our new president.
--Dr. Diana Sukhram [SOE- Exceptional Education and Learning, Director SOE
Graduate Programs, Associate Professor, Tenured]
Dr. Diana Sukhram is an Associate Professor in the Exceptional Education and
Learning Department and Director of the Graduate Education programs in the
School of Education at SUNY Old Westbury. She holds a masters degree in

12

Special Education -students with emotional and behavioral disorders and a PhD
in Special Education with an emphasis on reading and personnel preparation
from the University of Illinois. She teaches special education courses at the
undergraduate and graduate levels. Her primary research interests include:
Special education teacher preparation and professional development of educators
as leaders; Reading/strategy instruction for students with disabilities; Special
and general educators’ attitudes toward the inclusion of students with special
needs in international settings (Belize); and Special education in Belize.
Dr. Sukhram is a native of Belize and has been at OW for 10 years now. She has
taught for 15 years prior to working at Old Westbury which includes 9 years of
teaching experience with diverse groups of students with and without disabilities
across multiple settings. Additionally, she has a number of presentations (both
locally and internationally) and published articles in journals such as:
Exceptional Children; Journal of International Special Needs Education, and
Early Childhood Education Journal.
Dr Sukhram brings to this search committee her experience as a valuable
member of various search committees that have had many successful (faculty and
deans) hires. She is committed to the mission of the institution and has a sound
understanding of the functions and needs of the institution and most
importantly, the student population she serves at Old Westbury.
--Dr. Lori Zaikowski [SAS-Chair Chemistry & Physics, Professor, Tenured]
Lori Zaikowski is Department Chair of Chemistry and Physics and teaches
approximately 140 students per year. She reaches a cross-section of students in
introductory chemistry, first year community learning, and non-science majors
general education courses. Throughout her academic career, she served as chair
of 12 faculty/staff search committees, was a member of 10 other search
committees, and participated in Presidential searches. Her 4 years of experience
as a Union President and 1 year as a Union Chief Negotiator gave her additional
insight to the qualities, characteristics, and traits that are important in
Presidential leaders. She looks forward to the opportunity to contribute her
experience to the search for Old Westbury's next President who will lead our
diverse population of students, faculty, and staff into our exciting next chapter.
---