Faculty Governance Orientation (Oct. 19, 2018) : reference for Orientation Agenda item #1
Point of Information
Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
Faculty Senate Meeting of March 16, 2018
Role/Responsibilities of Senators
Background:
 Authority of the Faculty (brief): As empowered under Article X of the Policies of the SUNY Board
of Trustees, the Faculty shall have the responsibility to legislate and act as a policy making body in the
performance of its responsibilities as determined by the Board of Trustees, and in keeping with the
standards recommended and practiced by the State University Faculty Senate (UFS).
 Faculty Governance: The process by which faculty on each campus and across the system shall
participate in the advancement and stewardship of the institution, in all aspects of the Educational
Program, and with measurable inputs to planning and operational decisions regarding resources and
development. Shared Governance and Joint Effort are described in SUNY Governance Handbook.
SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Senate:
 As the organizational structure of campus governance, the Faculty Senate and its Standing and
Special Committees and the primary means by which the business of the Faculty shall be conducted.
 The Faculty Senate derives its authority through the governance standards recommended and practiced
by the University Faculty Senate of the State University of New York, in accordance with the
Authority granted under the Policies of the Board of Trustees, State University of New York.
 The Faculty Senate serves as the deliberative body for organizing and carrying out the business of the
Faculty (Faculty Bylaws, Article V section A), consistent with UFS governance model and SUNY Open
Meeting policies, and with commitment to open discussion, debate, transparency and consultation.
Role/Responsibility of Faculty Senators:
 Senators represent constituencies throughout the college:
o Every Academic Department and the Library
o Senators-at-Large elected by all voting faculty (5 seats)
o Standing Committee representatives (ARPT, CAP, FRRC, LEC, TLRC)
o UUP Professionals (3 seats) and SGA representatives (3 seats)
o President, Provost, Deans and members of the Cabinet serve ex officio without vote
 Expectations of work as a Faculty Senator:
o Regularly attend meeting of the Faculty Senate (normally twice per month)
o Alternate Senator expected to attend, with voting rights, when the Senator is absent
o Provide two-way communication between Senate and constituencies:
o Report back to constituencies regarding business and announcements arising at Senate.
Senate business often extends beyond academic and curricular matters to include resources,
planning and operations; student life, technology, campus development, etc.
o Bring constituency issues and concerns to Senate for deliberation and action
o Vote per constituency interests (note: Voting may occur by voice, hand count or paper ballot)
o Write and sponsor legislation in the form of Resolutions (per UFS standards)
o Volunteer for occasional special assignments or ad hoc committees
Possible Topics for subsequent Points of Information:
 Role of the Chair and Executive Committee
 Writing and Presenting Resolutions (examples of passed/enacted Resolutions, various subject areas)
 Parliamentary procedures as followed by OW Faculty Senate (per UFS standard practice)
 Authority of the Faculty in SUNY (notable areas of faculty effort, past and recent)

Faculty Governance Orientation (Oct. 19, 2018) : reference for Orientation Agenda item #2
Point of Information
Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
Faculty Senate Meeting of April 13, 2018
SUNY Governance/Board of Trustees: an Overview
Background:
 The State University of New York was established through Education Law in 1948.
 SUNY is comprised of 64 campuses: 29 state-operated campuses that include 4 university centers; also, five
statutory colleges (Alfred Ceramics and 4 colleges within Cornell) and 30 community colleges.
 The Board of Trustees is the governing body of the State University of New York.
 The Board consists of 18 members, of whom 15 trustees are appointed by the Governor. President of Student
Assembly serves as trustee with vote; UFS and FCCC Presidents serve ex officio without vote.
Authorities of the Board of Trustees (selected):
 Regulatory authority, oversight and fiduciary responsibility for entire SUNY system, including oversight
pertaining to the State University Construction Fund and to the SUNY Research Foundation.
 Authority in matters pertaining to the operations and administration of each state-operated campus.
 Power to appoint the SUNY Chancellor and System Administration senior staff.
 Power to appoint the President of each state-operated campus.
 Power to regulate the admission of students, and prescribe qualifications for their continued attendance.
 Power to regulate tuition, fees and charges.
 Power to establish new campuses.
 Power to award Distinguished Rank (e.g., Distinguished Teaching, Distinguished Service).
Committees of the Board of Trustees (selected):
 Executive Committee, Academic Affairs, Student Life, Finance and Administration, Research and Economic
Development, Charter Schools, Communication and External Affairs.
 Some Areas of Board activity since 1995: Rethinking SUNY, General Education, Public/Private Partnerships,
Levin Institute, Energy and Sustainability, Seamless Transfer, Micro-credentials.
Establishment of SUNY Governance Structure:
 University Faculty Senate (UFS): established under Article VII of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees,
o UFS is the official agency through which the University Faculty engages in governance of the
University.
o Standing Committees of the University Faculty Senate include: Awards, Governance, Graduate, Public
Information, Student Life, Undergraduate, and University Operations.
 Authority of the Faculty: under Article X of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, the Faculty of each
college are empowered to legislate and act as a policy making body in the performance of its responsibilities as
determined by the Board of Trustees, and in keeping with the standards and practices of the University Faculty
Senate. The SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Senate serves as the deliberative body for organizing and carrying out
the business of the college faculty, consistent with UFS model.


College Council: under Article VIII of the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees, and in accordance with
provisions of Education Law, a Council is established at each state-operated institution.
o Councils exercise such powers as provided for in Education Law, “subject to general management,
supervision, control and approval” in accordance with rules established by the SUNY Trustees.
o Councils develop strong relationships between their institution and local communities, and promote
campus and University interests. Councils have a leadership role in presidential searches, and an
oversight role in matters of planning, campus buildings, operations and administration.
o Statutory role in matters concerning students (e.g., retention, safety, residential life).
o Old Westbury’s College Council consists of 7 members appointed by the Governor, and the President
of SGA who serves with vote; Chair of Faculty Senate serves ex officio without vote. College
President, Provost and senior staff report to the Council, which meets four times per year.



Student Assembly: established under Article XVII of the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees; the official
organization by which State University students participate in University-wide governance.

Faculty Governance Orientation (Oct. 19, 2018) : reference for Orientation Agenda item #3
Point of Information
Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
Faculty Senate Meeting of April 27, 2018
Faculty Senate Activities: an Overview
Background:
 Actions and Activities undertaken by Faculty Senate may span weeks, months or semesters.
 Faculty Senate activities include resolutions, reports, initiatives, hearings, town halls, investigations,
analyses, task forces, establishment of new Standing or college-wide committees, joint effort.
 Areas of Faculty Senate activity include broad matters within the Authority of the Faculty, as
empowered through Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, through established governance structure,
consistent with UFS standards and practices.
 Breadth and depth of FS activities include matters of the educational program, student life, facilities,
quality of life, budget, planning, operations, campus development, ethics, energy and sustainability.
 Effective outcomes from Faculty Senate activities contribute to institutional effectiveness.

A Brief Sampling of Faculty Senate Activities
In Matters of the Educational Program:
 Deliberation and approval to establish Honors College.
 Deliberation and approval of Latin Honors; approval of policy to establish Grade Point Average.
 Deliberation and approval of Master Plan amendment to allow granting of Graduate Degrees.
 Deliberation and approval of change in admissions Selectivity matrix for FTC students.
 Facilitation of Special Meetings of the Faculty regarding NCATE accreditation.
 Deliberation and approval for departments within each School to be represented on Faculty Senate.
 Faculty Senate-led initiative for local control of General Education: program design, rubrics and
assessment, in collaboration with UFS task force, leading to establishment of GEC (now LEC).
In Matters of Student Life
 Deliberation and actions regarding minimum GPA for First Year Residents (including presentation of
Faculty Senate resolution to College Council).
 Deliberation and actions in response to administration’s zero-tolerance policy (including presentation
to College College).
 Comprehensive initiative regarding revisions to the college’s judicial process and Code for Student
Conduct (including joint effort with Student Affairs and presentations to College Council).
 Establishment of Faculty Judicial Committee as part of the college’s judicial process (involved
revision to Faculty Bylaws, 2009).
In Matters of Campus Development
 Actions in opposition to building the Nassau County Police Academy on Old Westbury campus;
(involved College Council Chair and NC Police Commissioner appearing at Faculty Senate hearing).
 Faculty Senate-led hearings on proposed Land Lease Legislation (1998-1999) which would have
allowed the leasing of campus land for public/private development such as a Sports/medicine complex,
Hotel/conference center and residential housing.
 Faculty Senate-led hearings on Open Space Preservation Legislation (1999-2000) in reaction to
proposed Land Lease Legislation and proposed development projects on the Old Westbury campus.
 Faculty Senate comments in response to State University Construction Fund re. Parking Lot Project
and Short Environmental Impact Form (SEIF) prepared by SUCF contractor for NYS/DEC (2018).
Page 1 of 2

Page 2 of 2

In Matters of the Physical Plant
 Faculty Senate-led investigation of IEQ (indoor environmental quality), including air quality, health,
safety, cleanliness of campus facilities (per APPA standards), with focus on the Academic Village.
Analysis of facilities, including joint effort with UUP, came to attention of SUNY and relevant
agencies (1995-1997), and helped facilitate both short-term and long-term solution strategies.
 Faculty Senate-led energy audit of Old Westbury campus buildings, with focus on Academic Village,
which created opportunities for undergraduate research. Energy analyses initiated by FS came to the
attention of SUNY and NYSERDA (1997-2000), and led to opportunities for comprehensive
development of energy conservation measures, energy efficiency and cogeneration projects.
 Regular reports to Faculty Senate on energy conservation, energy efficiency and renewable energy
projects proposed for Old Westbury by NYSERDA, SAIC, LIPA, EnLink GeoEnergy (1998-2002).
 Establishment of Campus Green Committee (ad hoc college-wide committee convened 2009-2010)
in response to SUNY Energy & Sustainability Policy enacted by SUNY Board of Trustees, Nov. 2007.
Note: re-establishment of Campus Green Committee is included in Strategic Plan 2018-2023.
In Matters of Budget, Planning and Institutional Effectiveness
 Faculty Senate-led Strategic Plan (in response to Rethinking SUNY, 1995) identified over $1Mil in
cost savings as an alternative to retrenchment of academic programs and faculty; FS Strategic Plan
was delivered by college’s CFO as campus response to pending 10% reduction in operating budget.
 Faculty Senate-led budget analyses, including analysis of the college’s operating and all-funds budget,
benchmarking vs. peer institutions, and development of metrics for institutional effectiveness,
informed by survey of best practices in SUNY campus budget process (2000-2002).
 Regular reports to Faculty Senate by Senate representative from College-wide Budget Planning
Committee (1992-2002). Note: the position of Senator from BPC is codified in Faculty Bylaws.
 Faculty Senate-led 360 Review of senior administration (1997): included performance indicators for
academic and non-academic units (all divisions); analyses and metrics for institutional effectiveness,
including in areas of resource allocation, M&O (maintenance and operations), student support,
institutional advancement. The 300 page report and analyses produced by FS was provided to the
SUNY Chancellor, College Council, Board of Trustees; a transition in college leadership followed.
 Faculty Senate joint effort in Strategic Planning during the past two decades, including in 1998,
1999-2000, 2008-2010, and most recently, joint effort since 2016 for Strategic Plan 2018-2023.
In Matters of Governance Outreach
 Faculty Senate-led investigation, at the behest of 400+ students who submitted petition to FS Office
(regarding alleged misconduct within a certain department); report of Ad Hoc Ethics Committee was
presented at special meeting of FS (June 1996); broader recommendations led to establishment of
Faculty Rights & Responsibilities Committee as a Special (now standing) Committee of the Senate.
 Faculty Senate initiative to improve the proportion and composition of faculty participation in
governance; concerted effort resulted in faculty participation increasing from 35% to over 50% of
faculty, including improved balance of senior and junior faculty (in period 2005-2009).
 FS activities to improve interface with SGA, including outreach to fill 3 SGA seats on Faculty Senate;
FS workshops on the budget presented at SGA meetings. Outreach by faculty on Student Life (and
other committees) assisting students in bringing concerns and actionable items to Faculty Senate.
 Faculty Senate initiative to improve interface with the College Council, including regular written
reports to the Council; invitation to members and chair of College Council to attend FS meetings.

Faculty Governance Orientation (Oct. 19, 2018) : General reference for Senate/handout #4
Point of Information
Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
Faculty Senate Meeting of September 21, 2018
Some Procedural Basics/Rules of Order

Background:
 The SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Senate follows basic parliamentary procedure,
consistent with standard practices of the University Faculty Senate (UFS).
 The Chair of the Faculty Senate, also referred to by SUNY as the Campus
Governance Leader (CGL), presides over Senate and Faculty meetings.
 The Chair has considerable discretion in meeting conduct and procedures (with
occasional input from the Parliamentarian, when appropriate).
Some Procedural Basics:
 Scheduled speakers and scheduled reports have the Senate floor for the time allotted
on published meeting agenda.
 An agenda item may (or may not) include time for Q&A or comment period. The
Chair has discretion to extend agenda time (or not) for Q&A or comment period.
 Senators are normally expected to allow scheduled speakers to conclude their
remarks or reports before any Q&A or comment period.
 A Senator raising a “Point of Information” may interrupt a scheduled speaker to
seek clarification  or to provide clarification  of a specific point. This is not
considered an infraction of Order.
Order during Q&A or comment period:
 Persons with questions or comments should raise their hand to be recognized. Such
persons will normally be recognized by the Chair in sequence of hands raised. (The
Chair may defer to the scheduled speaker to conduct the Q&A.)
 A Senator may “yield time” to a person having a question or comment who is a
visitor to the Senate, and who raised their hand to be recognized.
 The Chair may also ask that a Senator please yield time to a non-Senator so that the
visitor may have the floor.
Consideration of Resolutions (some basics):
 Resolutions are typically presented to the Senate under New Business, then debated
and acted upon in a subsequent meeting as Old Business. This provides opportunity
for Senators to discuss Resolutions with colleagues and constituency groups.
(Consideration of Resolutions: continued on reverse side)

Consideration of Resolutions (some basics, continued):

 Resolutions are typically presented to the Senate under New Business, then debated
and acted upon in a subsequent meeting as Old Business. This provides opportunity
for Senators to discuss Resolutions with colleagues and constituency groups.
 If a Resolution deals with time-sensitive matter(s), the Chair has discretion to allow
the Resolution presentation/discussion/debate and action in a single session.
 Resolutions are normally read into the record by sponsor(s). The Chair may allow a
summary instead of complete reading of Resolution when text is lengthy.
 Resolutions need a Second in order to open floor to debate. The Chair is responsible
for conducting debate (with possible occasional input from Parliamentarian).
 Senators will argue For or Against the Resolution or motion on the floor. Extraneous
commentary, speaking out of turn, or lack of courtesy may be ruled “Out of Order”.
 During debate, the Chair will recognize speakers per basic rules of Order
previously described (under Q&A/comment period). The Chair has discretion to limit
speaker(s) to an allotted time, especially when many are in queue waiting to speak.
 Amendments to a Resolution or motion on the floor must be considered prior to
action on body of Resolution. Amendments/motions need a Second to be considered.
 During debate, when considering amendments and related motions, it may be
appropriate for most recent amendment proposed to be the first amendment disposed.
The body of a Resolution may also be divided or considered by paragraph.

Voting (a few basics):
 The Chair has discretion when to move to a vote. The Chair may sometimes ask for
an informal “Sense of the Senate” to determine if unanimous consent is feasible.
 A Senator may seek to end debate by “Calling the Question”. In this instance, the
Senate will vote whether or not to end debate on the motion or matter on the floor.
“Yes” vote on “Calling the Question” will end debate; the Chair will then move to a
vote on the motion or matter on the floor. “No” vote will continue debate.
 Voting on a Resolution, amendment or motion is in the form of Yes, No or Abstain;
voting may be by voice or hand count. Ex officio members of Senate do not vote.
Voting by paper ballot (confidential) may also possibly be requested by Senator(s), as
provided for under the Bylaws.
 In addition to voting whether or not to approve a Resolution or motion on the floor,
a motion or agenda item may also be Withdrawn (e.g., for modification); Referred
or Recommitted to committee; Tabled to suspend temporarily consideration/action;
or Postponed to a specific time.