students should be housed in Academic Affairs as academic services are provided. This
is the case at CUNY. AVP noted it was not so at Stony Brook and Farmingdale. Is there
a set of problems that will fixed with shift to AA? M. Barrett stated there are problems
providing technology to accommodate disabled students. Most services that OSSD
provides are academic services analogous to Math Lab, etc. Some SUNYs have the office

report to Student Affairs, others Academic Affairs. May be 25% of our students have
unrecognized special needs. Also issue for students who are not recognized can’t go
anywhere on campus to get help.

The AVP wanted on the record that he is not sure that the presumption that problems can
be handled and resolved quickly would be done, given all the constituencies they have to

serve.

M. Barrett wanted the resolution clarified in the case of hiring of the Assistant Director of
OSSD so that the job’s tasks and responsibilities in the majority provide direct service to
students. Vote: Yes (20), No (1), Abstentions (0).
9.

Student Government Report
No representative from Student Government was available and there was no report.

10. Old Business

The resolution Jn Opposition to the Bush Administration's Plan for War against Iraq was
brought forward by a group and needs no second.

Questions and Comments

There was a discussion about energy supplies, the spread of the war to other countries in
the Middle East, and whether credible evidence exists about weapons of mass destruction

in Iraq. A friendly amendment by Mari Miller-Lamb that the resolution include a
Whereas, going to war would put our students and family member in the military at risk
was unanimously approved. The resolutions passed: Yes (16), No (2), Abstentions (2).
11. New Business

Kate Velsor thanked the Safety Aides for their assistance in evacuating the building
during the fire alarm on 10/16.
Please view the exhibit organized by D. Papademas in the library.
Nancy Sacks invited attendance to the on-campus play “Greenwood” produced by Mandy
Friskin in American Studies.
M. Barrett requested assistance for a needy student with excess contributions going to the
Faculty Fund.
B. Joseph asked that a resolution dated October 9" be distributed.
J. Edelson. Copies of Catalyst are not distributed in C Wing.
S. O’Connor invited faculty to attend the Common Hour activity in D 228 at 10:50 a.m.
“How to Integrate Technology in the Classroom.”
The meeting was adjourned at 2:30 p.m.