STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, November 15, 2019 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes



Roster of Senators Present:  Andrew Mattson (Chair), Christa Devirgilio (Secretary/Treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, Math&CIS), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At-Large Rep to the EC), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Laura Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At- Large), Helidon Gjergji (Senator At-Large), Roger Mayer (AC), Camile Jones (CP), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young Park (Math & CIS), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez (Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Runi Mukherji (University Senator Alternate), Blidi Stemm (CE), Fred Fleischer (VA), Christos Noustos (BS), Amanda Frisken (CAP), Lina Gilic (EE)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Wayne Edwards (VP Advancement)



Visitors: Zulema Cabail, Jacob Heller, Duncan Quarless, Kerry Weir, Ashley Lien, Cris Notaro, Samara Smith, Ryoko Yamamoto, Jillian Crocker, Yogesh Moore, Frank Sanacory, Manya Mascareno, Diana Sukhar, Tom DelGiudice, Ed Bever, Gwen Kay



Roster of Senators Absent: Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Jingyi Song (HP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Patty Harris (LE), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH), Ashley Alvarado (SGA), Sara Williamson (MMF)



			  0.	Meeting arrival and sign in	

			  I.	Call to Order	12:36 p.m.		



			  II.	Approval of minutes for November 1, 2019	

			Motion to approve the minutes was seconded. No corrections or amendments noted. 

			Minutes approved by voice vote, without dissent.  



			III.	Chair’s Report	

			Financial Cancellation Task Force needs two senior faculty to help develop policies on how, when and why students get cancelled. Time sensitive, committee needs to form and meet before spring 2020

			New Electronic/Digital College Catalog is being developed and would like to form a committee to investigate platforms, best practices, etc. Any interested person should email Jacob Heller.

			Comment was made on the importance of still offering a print version.



			IV.	University Faculty Senate President	

			Dr. Gwen Kay introduced herself, explained her role in the University Senate, and answered questions

			She serves as a liaison for faculty and staff at all 64 campuses. As SUNY Senate President,  also has a seat on the SUNY Board of Trustees (non-voting)  

			Q.  Have you seen an indication of shared governance being reduced throughout the system? 

			A. Yes, it has been observed on many campuses 

			Q. What is your impression of SUNY Old Westbury?

			A. It is abundantly clear that many of us take the mission of the college, social justice, affordability and access very seriously; it is ingrained in the core of our culture.

			Q.  What are the common challenges and issues you have observed across campuses?

			A. The biggest issues across campus senates presently are interim positions, being in office without clear terms of office, processes and searches; also the evaluation of upper administration from deans to provost.



			V. 	President’s Report	

			Time was reserved, however President Butts was absent. No report was given.



			VI.     Old Business

			Update on Presidential Search & College Council   	

			Provost’s Office asked for three names for the Presidential Search Firm Selection Committee. Tom DelGiudice, Laura Anker, & Diana Sukhar were selected at random from the six faculty members on the presidential search committee. They have been working on evaluation of firms and expect to have a selection announced by Thanksgiving.

			Chair of College Council is still vacant; this position is appointed by the governor. The search process is stalled without this position. 

			As per SUNY Guidelines for presidential search, there are two positions on the committee that need to be appointed: one incumbent or retired SUNY president from another campus or a member of Chancellor’s senior staff; and the Chancellor’s liaison representative (non-voting). The Chancellor has combined these two positions to be filled by one person for previous presidential searches. This person may likely be Terry Miller.

			Gwen Kay is our contact person to the Chancellor’s office and board of trustees until the search committee is formed and working.

			The state currently has close to 200 vacant college council seats. The chancellor’s office sees this a priority and anticipates movement on these vacancies soon.

			If the governor’s appointment of college council chair is not forthcoming, the board of trustees can designate a person to be chair of search committee. This was done previously at SUNY Downstate in 2015.

			Officer in Charge, Acting President, Interim President are all different designations with different criteria. Officer in Charge is usually an internal member of the campus and is recommended by the administration to the Chancellor and Board of Trustees. An Officer in Charge is put in place if current president is on sabbatical or an extenuating circumstance. Officer in Charge is usually for a short time period, six months. We will likely have this designation from January 2020 to June 2020 when President Butts officially steps down. If we do not have a President selected by June 2020, we will need to designate an Interim President. This could be the same person as the Officer in Charge. Each designee will have to be interview 

Question was raised about the possible impact on accreditation of uncertainty. 



			Applied Learning Task Force Resolution

			Friendly amendment to add to first further resolved: that the JF-AALTF be comprised of a minimum of 5 faculty members with a minimum of 3 from Arts and Sciences. Amendment was seconded and approved by Vote: 25-0-0

			Two members from Arts & Sciences volunteered: Zulema Cabail, Christos Noustos

			Second friendly amendment to change the language in 2nd whereas: “We adopted LEAP along with Old Westbury’s institutional student learning outcomes and social justice requirement. Amendment was seconded and approved by Vote: 24-0-0

			Resolution accepted into the record without dissent.



			Bylaws Revision & ARPT Manual	

			The revisions have been made and bylaws revision requires a paper ballot vote, needs a quorum of faculty participation and 2/3 majority to pass.



			VII. 	New Business

			CAP Report	

			Annual Report(s) for prior two academic years were presented by past-chair, and accepted into the record without dissent.

			APPC Resolution

			Resolution on academic clemency Policy was read and accepted into the record

				Vote: 25 -0-0

			STEM Building Addition/Renovation Resolution	

			Friendly amendment/revision to add to last sentence And be it further resolved: “…by requesting the Governor and the New York State Legislature” 

			Resolution accepted into the record by voice vote, without dissent.

			Resolution to Replace “Freshman” with “First-Year”	end 2:05pm

			Resolution accepted into the record by voice vote, without dissent.

			IT Shared Governance Task Force Report	end 2:27pm

			Report was accepted and motion to accept recommendations, and to request that administration work with governance to create IT Shared Governance Task Force.



			VIII.	Announcements / Concerns  

			None reported

			IX.	Adjournment 	2:30pm