Old Westbury

January 9, 2002

To:

Naomi Rosenthal, Chair
Faculty Senate

From: R.M. Hoyte, Chair,. BI
The Ad Hoc Committee on Discretionary Salary Increases

Subject: DSI Awards
In response to your memorandum of January 8, 2002 I hereby submit the following. The
criteria used by the committee are those specified in Dr. Bonnett’s memorandum to
faculty and librarians dated September 21, 2001 (copy enclosed) and further listed on the
checklist page (copy enclosed). The procedures used by the committee are described
below and a blank copy of the score sheet used by committee members is enclosed.
Please note that the committee made recommendations based solely on merit, not
inequity, and did not participate in decisions regarding specific amounts of raises to
individuals.
The ad hoc Committee on 2001 Discretionary Salary Increases (CDSI) made its

recommendations to Dr. Bonnett in a memorandum dated October 11, 2001. The other
members of the committee were Rita colon-Urban, Sachi Dastidar, Christine Griffin,

Elizabeth Ewen, Patrick O’ Sullivan and Basilio Serrano. This report is excerpted from the
report to Dr. Bonnett.

The ad hoc Committee on Discretionary Salary Increases (CDSI) was convened on
Monday October 1, 2001 and received its charge from the Otfice of Academic Affairs.
At that meeting the committee also discussed and agreed on a Procedure for Evaluation
of DSI Applications (see enclosure). Over a period of 6 days following the October 5
nomination deadline members of the committee examined the files held in room H427

under the control of the Office of Academic Affairs.

On Thursday October 11, 2001 at

2:00 p.m. the committee met to discuss the files and formulate its recommendations.

Summary of Procedures Used: During the initial examination of the files each member
of the committee privately assigned an initial score to each file on a scale of 1 to 5 in
whole numbers where 5 represented the highest overall quality and 1 represented the
lowest. At the October 11, 2001 meeting the Chair asked for and recorded, without
discussion, the initial scores of each committee member for each applicant. The recorded
scores were then reviewed by the committee for discussion. In most cases where there

State University of New York College at Old Wdstbury « Old Westbury, New York 11568-0210

was general consistency among the scores assigned by committee members little or no
discussion was held and the average of the scores was computed and recorded. When
there was wide variation among the scores discussion was held and each member had an
opportunity to adjust his/her initial score based on the comments made. After the
discussion the Chair asked for and recorded the final scores of each member.

averaged and recorded as the final average score.

These were

Recommendations: After formulating average scores the committee examined the
overall profile and decided to make recommendations in four categories based on score
ranges.

These are Recommended with High Enthusiasm, Recommended,

Recommended with Low Enthusiasm and Not Recommended.

The CDSI thus made recommendations on the scored files based on the following scale:
3.9 to 4.4 Recommended with High Enthusiasm

2.6 to 3.7 Recommended
1.9 to 2.4 Recommended with Low Enthusiasm
Below 1.9 Not Recommended

Since the scores are averages of ratings by seven committee members the above scale

should not be taken to suggest that there are significant differences between candidates

whose scores are closely spaced above and below the range limits. The scale should
therefore be viewed as a rough guideline.

rankings was 2.8 and the mean was 3.0.

Enclosures:
Dr. Bonnett’s memorandum of 9/21/2001

Checklist page

Score sheet
Procedure for Evaluation

The overall average of the committee’s