Curriculum & Academic Planning Committee
Annual Report, AY2019-2020

June 2020

[AY2019-2020 CAP Membership]
Maria C. Bustamante
Tejas Bouklas
Amanda Frisken (F19 only, F19 Chair)
Ruomei Gao
Yu Lei

Anissa Wicktor Lynch
Lorenz Neuwirth
Sheyi Oladipo
Frank Sanacory (S20 only)
Ryoko Yamamoto (S20 Chair)

I.

Five Year Reviews

In AY2019-2020, CAP Committee reviewed two Five Year Review Reports.
Department/Program

CAP Approval Date

Modern Languages

March 27, 2020

History & Philosophy

May 8, 2020

II.

Program Proposal Reviews

In AY2019-2020, CAP Committee reviewed seven program proposals (six micro-credential proposals and
one minor proposal) from four academic units.
Program

Host Unit

Fundamentals of Non-Fiction
Video Production
Fundamentals of Television
News Production

American Studies/
Media&Comm.
American Studies/
Media&Comm.
American Studies/
Media&Comm.

Advanced TV/Video Production

Type

CAP Approval
Date

FS Approval
Date

Micro-credential

Feb 14, 2020

Apr 3, 2020

Micro-credential

Feb 14, 2020

Apr 3, 2020

Micro-credential

Feb 14, 2020

Apr 3, 2020

Pre-Health Professions

Biology

Minor

May 8, 2020

May 15, 2020

Cognitive Neuropsychology

Psychology

Micro-credential

May 8, 2020

May 15, 2020

Neuropsychopharmacology

Psychology

Micro-credential

May 8, 2020

May 15, 2020

Foundations of Nonprofit
Management

SPS

Micro-credential

May 8, 2020

May 15, 2020

III.

Other Activities

1. The Revival of Line Request Review
CAP Committee revived the practice of line request review which had been halted for nearly a decade. In
Fall 2019, a subcommittee reviewed historical records and drafted a line review request submission form
and evaluation rubric. An online line request review form was made available to department chairs in
April 2020. A total of nine line requests were submitted from six academic departments. The committee
reviewed and voted on line requests on May 26 and recommendations were submitted to the Academic
Affairs on June 5, 2020. The submission form and recommendations are included in the appendix.
2. M.A.T. Program Discussions
CAP Committee hosted a meeting and offered recommendations in order to assist interdepartmental
discussions in the M.A.T. Program. The meeting was held on Feb 14, 2020 and recommendations were
presented to relevant parties in May 2020.

Appendix
Line Request Form

CAP Line Recommendations

* This is a Word version of the Online Faculty Line Request Form. Please the Online Form for the final submission to CAP

Faculty Line Request Form: Curriculum and Academic Planning (CAP) Committee
Please submit this form to request a new or replacement faculty line. As directed by the Faculty Bylaws,
CAP will review all submissions on the basis of the criteria outlined in this form, so as to make
recommendations to the Provost for new faculty hires. Although advisory in nature, CAP’s recognition of
urgent need can provide support for department requests for faculty lines. This helps retain the faculty’s
central role in decisions affecting the College curriculum. This form consists of six sections: Face Sheet,
Equity, Curricular Needs, Alignment with Institutional Guiding Documents, External Opportunities and
Connections, and Other (Click "Next" to go to the next section). Please outline your reasons for the new
line in response to the prompts in each section. Keep responses brief and evidence-based (referencing
supporting documents or links as appropriate). If the prompt is not relevant, enter "N/A". Please submit
your request by Monday, May 18, 2020. If you have any questions, contact Ryoko Yamamoto at
yamamotor@oldwestbury.edu. Faculty Resource Statistics referred to in the "Equity" Section are
available below:
https://oldwestburyedu.sharepoint.com/:b:/s/cap2/EZUVPtvrmX1Gsu7fZbpS8_YB44nuUG752jhjc_GjSeK
vAg?e=TWqbxd

Face Sheet
1. Academic Department/Unit

2. Provide position description, in roughly 150 words.

3.Outline the department’s process for determining this line need (i.e. formation of subcommittee,
discussion at meeting, vote tally, etc).

CAP Faculty Line Request Form, Spring 2020 - 1

* This is a Word version of the Online Faculty Line Request Form. Please the Online Form for the final submission to CAP

I. Equity
Discuss rationale for the faculty line in terms of equity with other departments, in terms of:
4. % of sections taught by adjunct faculty (Also discuss tenure-track vs lecturer and/or visiting positions,
if relevant)

5. The ratio of full-time faculty to the number of students served in the major.

6. The ratio of full-time faculty to total FTE students served by the Department.

CAP Faculty Line Request Form, Spring 2020 - 2

* This is a Word version of the Online Faculty Line Request Form. Please the Online Form for the final submission to CAP

II. Curricular Needs
Explain how the line is necessary to cover curricular demands:
7. In the existing major (i.e., department curricular needs)

8. Outside of the major (i.e., college-wide curricular needs)

9. In order to start a new degree program that has been approved (new program needs)

10. In order to renew or acquire approved accreditation (accreditation needs)

CAP Faculty Line Request Form, Spring 2020 - 3

* This is a Word version of the Online Faculty Line Request Form. Please the Online Form for the final submission to CAP

III. Alignment with Institutional Guiding Documents
Demonstrate how the line request is consistent with and/or aligns with:
11. The Department/College Mission

12. The College's current Strategic Plan

13. The Department's most recent Five Year Review (and other relevant documents)

CAP Faculty Line Request Form, Spring 2020 - 4

* This is a Word version of the Online Faculty Line Request Form. Please the Online Form for the final submission to CAP

IV. External Opportunities and Connections
Explain how the line would establish and/or strengthen:
14. Links to external funding

15. Links with potential field placements, employers, and other career development opportunities

16. Relationships with community organizations, external research, and educational partners

CAP Faculty Line Request Form, Spring 2020 - 5

* This is a Word version of the Online Faculty Line Request Form. Please the Online Form for the final submission to CAP

V. Other
Identify other reasons for the line request:
17. Other notable benefits for the College

18. Special or additional considerations not addressed above.

19. Comments/Feedback to CAP on this form

CAP Faculty Line Request Form, Spring 2020 - 6

DATE:

June 5, 2020

TO:

Duncan Quarless, Acting Provost

FROM:

Ryoko Yamamoto, Chair, Curriculum & Academic Planning Committee

CC:

Barbara Hillery, Acting Associate Provost
Amanda Frisken, Acting Dean, SAS
Diana Sukhram, Acting Dean, SAS
Raj Devasagayam, Dean, SOB
Lee Blackstone, Chair, Sociology, SAS
Sanja Cale, Chair, Exceptional Education, SOE
Juan Galvis, Chair, History & Philosophy, SAS
Lillian Park, Chair, Psychology, SAS
Frank Sanacory, Chair, Math CIS, SAS
Kenneth Winkelman, Chair, Accounting, SOB

RE:

Spring 2020 CAP Committee Line Recommendations

The CAP Committee received nine line requests from six academic departments. After careful review and
discussion of each line request, the CAP decided that critical and immediate needs and/or strong merits
were clearly demonstrated for four of these lines, and needs and merits were clearly demonstrated for five
lines.
Procedure
The CAP Committee Chair emailed Department Chairs to solicit line requests for the upcoming academic
year on April 22, 2020. By May 19, 2020, a total of nine line requests were submitted from six academic
Departments via an online form. These requests were compiled and circulated among the CAP Committee
members on May 19, 2020. On May 26, 2020, eight of nine CAP members met to review and vote on line
requests.
After discussing each line request, CAP Committee members that were present at the meeting casted
anonymous votes via Microsoft Forms. Each line request was classified into one of the following three
categories.
Critical and immediate need and/or strong merit of the line is clearly demonstrated [A]
Need and merit of the line is clearly demonstrated [B]
Need and merit of the line is not clearly demonstrated [C]
A modified procedure was applied for departments with multiple line requests (See the
“Recommendations: Departments with Multiple Line Requests” section). Members recused themselves
from voting for a line request from their own Department in order to avoid any conflicts of interest.
CAP Line Recommendations Spring 2020 - 1

Recommendations: Departments with a Single Line Request
Department

Line Requested

Psychology*

Mental Health
Counseling,
Lecturer line
Math CIS*
Statistics, Tenuretrack line
Exceptional
Childhood Special
Education
Ed, Tenure-track
line
Accounting, Taxation Taxation, Tenure& Business Law
track line
* Total vote count is 7 due to one recusal.

CAP Recommendation
(Vote Count)
Critical and immediate need demonstrated [A]
(A=7, B=0, C=0, Abstention=0)
Critical and immediate need demonstrated [A]
(A=6, B=1, C=0, Abstention=0)
Needs and merits clearly demonstrated [B]
(A=3, B=5, C=0, Abstention=0)
Needs and merits clearly demonstrated [B]
(A=1, B=4, C=3, Abstention=0)

Recommendations: Departments with Multiple Line Requests
Two departments (History and Philosophy, Sociology) requested multiple lines. During the review
meeting, the CAP Committee decided that the requesting Department, rather than CAP, should be able to
decide which line is more important to their curriculum. In this spirit, the Committee decided to vote on
how many lines were critically needed /or needed in each Department. In the future, the CAP Committee
plans to ask Departments to prioritize lines when they make multiple line requests.
Department

Lines Requested

History & Philosophy

One (1) line for
Environmental
Studies – Tenuretrack line

Sociology*

One (1) line for
Philosophy/Religion
– Tenure-track line
One (1) line for
replacement Tenure-track line
Two (2) lines for
Applied Social
Research Program –
Tenure-track lines

CAP Recommendation
(Vote Count)
Critical and immediate need demonstrated [A] for
one (1) line
Needs and merits clearly demonstrated [B] for one
(1) line
Line 1 (A=7, B=1, C=0, Abstention = 0)
Line 2 (A=1, B=6, C=1, Abstention = 0)
Critical and immediate need demonstrated [A] for
one (1) line
Needs and merits clearly demonstrated [B] for two
(2) lines
Line 1 (A=7, B=0, C=0, Abstention = 0)
Line 2 (A=2, B=4, C=1, Abstention = 0)
Line 3 (A=2, B=4, C=1, Abstention = 0)

* Total vote count is 7 due to one recusal.

CAP Line Recommendations Spring 2020 - 2