Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC) 
Annual Report 2020-2021
Submitted by Eric Hagan 

I. Membership 

The TLRC consists of seven elected/appointed faculty members and, as of 2020, five ex-officio members. The combination of personnel reflects current practice and facilitate and formalize communication and collaboration across units in fulfillment of the committee’s charge. 

TLRC Membership 2020-2021

Elected & Appointed Members 

Representing 

Eric Hagan (Chair)

SAS 

Chante Hope (Vice-Chair) 

Library

Elizabeth Morphis (Secretary)

SOE

Veronika Dolar

SAS 

Chris Hartmann

SAS

Amy Hsu (Spring 2021)

SOE 

Jillian Nissen (Fall 2020)

SAS

Katarzyna Platt

SOB 





Ex Officio (non-voting) Members 

Representing 

Ed Bever 

Director of Distance Learning 

Antonia DiGregorio 

Director of Library 

Cris Notaro  

Coordinator of CETL

Thomas Rico

Coordinator of CETL

Chandra Shehigian

Instructional Designer

II. Activities 

The TLRC works to provide resources, conversation spaces, and opportunities for faculty to address and adapt to the everchanging teaching environment. The TLRC also worked to create events in agreement with the resolution in support of the Black Lives Matter movement in dedicating the 2020-2021 academic year to hosting events in exploring topics of (in)equality, (in)justice, and movements for social change. 

During the remote 2020-2021 academic year, the TLRC hosted a New Faculty Orientation focused on teaching-issues for 11 new full-time faculty, and hosted four roundtable discussions. The TLRC co-sponsored the ARPT’s and UUP’s annual “Getting to Tenure and Beyond” workshop. Furthermore, the TLRC co- sponsored alongside CETL, Parity, and the School of Arts and Sciences a workshop on “Integrating Decolonialism and Anti-Racism: Humanizing the Higher Education Classroom.” Finally, the TLRC sponsored the senate resolution and supported of the creation of the Innovation Lab. In addition to these activities (also listed below), the TLRC held a total of six business meetings. 

The committee continued to serve in an advisory capacity to the Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CETL) in its third full year of activity and represented faculty teaching needs and requirements on the Distance Learning Taskforce. 

Please note that members of the TLRC rely heavily on the expertise and participation of our colleagues to develop successful initiatives, and always welcome suggestions/volunteers for presenters.

TLRC Activities 2020-2021 

Title

Format 

Date

Faculty Presenters 

Collaborators

New Faculty Orientation 

Teaching- Focused Orientation, Resource Info Session, and Meet & Greet (half day) 

9/25/2020

Various (approx. 25) 



Discussing Difficult Topics: Navigating Politics in the Classroom

Roundtable 

10/21/2020

Anahí Douglas (English, SAS), Karl Grossman (AS/MS, SAS), Thomas Lilly (PEL, SAS)



What the Library Can Do For you

Roundtable 

12/03/2020

Antonia DiGregorio (Library), Christa Devirgilio (Library), Chris Hartmann (PH/SAS), Madeline Crocitto (MM&F/SOB), Erin Toolis (PSYCH/SAS)



Getting to Tenure and Beyond 

Workshop 

2/12/2020



UUP, ARPT

Academic Integrity and Remote Spaces

Roundtable

2/24/2021

Jillian Nissen (BIO/SAS), Betty Berbari (MATH/SAS), Eric Schwartz (BIO/SAS)





Faculty Perspectives: What Interlibrary Loan Can Do for You

Roundtable

03/23/2021

Deepa Jani (ENGLISH/SAS), Lisa Whitten (PSYCH, SAS), Chelsea Shields-Más (History & Philosophy, SAS)



Integrating Decolonialism and Anti-Racism: Humanizing the Higher Education Classroom

Presentation

05/06/2021

Dr. Chanelle Wilson (External Presenter)

PARITY, CETL, School of Arts & Sciences

Applying Decolonialist and Anti-Racist Approaches in our Classrooms

Workshop

05/11/2021

Kinning Poon (BIO, SAS), Jenny Strandberg (History & Philosophy, SAS)

PARITY

The Anti-Racist Writing Workshop: How to Decolonize the Creative Classroom

Workshop

06/02/2021

Felicia Rose Chavez (External Presenter)

WAC, English Department, The Writing Center, SAS, CETL, PARITY

Innovation Lab

Workshops

Spring 2021 semester

Various (approx. 25)

CETL, Distance Learning