STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY



Faculty Senate Meeting

		Friday, April 8, 2016

12:30 – 2:30 p.m.

NAB 1100



Senators Present: Kathleen Velsor (Chair), Thomas Lilly (Vice Chair/PEL), Yogesh More (Secretary/Math/CIS), Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian), Minna Barrett (University Senator), Kathleen Greenberg (At-Large Rep. to EC/ Senator At-Large), Lingxiang Li (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleiman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Emma Antoban (Library), Yu Lei (MMF), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Blidi Stemn (Childhood Education), Lauren Foxworth (Exceptional Education), Andrew Hashey (Exceptional Education), Sujani Reddy (American Studies), William Gillis (Biological Studies), Young-joo Kim (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf (English), Maureen Dolan (Math/CIS), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Sarah Smith (Public Health), Amanda Shigihara (Sociology), Patty Harris (Visual Arts), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLR), Amanda Frisken (GE). 



Senators Absent: Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Shalei Simms (Univ. Senator Alternate), Ana Martinez (Professional), Jeffrey D’amico (Accounting), Juan Galvis (History & Philosophy), Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages), Chris Hobson (ARPT), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC).



Justified Absence: Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Jacob Heller (FRR).



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Len Davis (CFO), Wayne Edwards (VP Student Affairs), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS), Jishan Zhu (Dean, SOB), Nancy Brown (Dean, SOE).



Visitors Present: Anthony Barbera (Assistant VP, Academic Affairs), Omar Estrada Torres (Dean of Students), Yumi Nicholson, Rafat Sada, Diana Sukhram, Sandy Kaufmann (Institutional Research).





Call to Order:  12:35 pm

Approval of the Minutes of March 11, 2016

Minutes were approved.

Faculty Senate Chair’s Report   							

Faculty Senate met with President Butts about the Marketing Resolution. Dr. Butts was sincere in his response, and spoke about changing the way we market our school.

Scantron ClassClimate (software for teaching evaluations) will be piloted during the summer sessions. It will be used for the Fall 2016 semester.  

The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate established a committee of six faculty members from various departments to work with the administration on   START-UP NY. The committee met with Bill Kimmins. 



President’s Letter (read by Wayne Edwards)						

VP of Student Affairs Wayne Edwards read aloud a letter from President Butts which addressed the events of March 24, involving an interaction between campus police and a student conducting voter registration. President Butts’ letter reads: 



I personally respect the right to free speech. Public space is provided to those who follow procedure, which did not happen in this situation. The question in this matter is not of voter registration. At this time, the College’s counsel is recommending all college officials refrain from further public comment, since the student has hired a lawyer who has threatened legal action.



Provost’s Report									

The Provost distributed a handout of an article from the Chronicle of Higher Education, titled “Small Changes in Teaching: the last 5 minutes of class.” 

Middle State review is due in June. Jacob Heller and Anthony Barbera are writing up the report.  The Provost was surprised to learn that a number of the SUNY campuses have had an unsatisfactory Middle States review.

The college is updating the strategic plan. The Provost asked all senators to ask their department to do the following: look at the Strategic Plan, then the matrix involving various college goals (academic, retention, enrollment, brand, finance goals), see where we are, and discuss what new goals and objectives need to be set, if any, and then decide on the strategy. For example, Wayne Edwards is working on Diversity. At a Senator’s request, the Provost promised to distribute electronic copies of the aforementioned documents.

Provost was asked for status of the Salary Compression Committee; his response was that he is waiting for the report from the committee chair, Jacob Heller.

Resolution on Migration from Google to Microsoft (Ryoko Yamamoto)

Ryoko recalled that the Chief Information Officer (CIO) had promised to involve faculty in a decision about a change of campus software from Google to Microsoft. However, it seems such collaboration never fully took place, and faculty were informed by CIO in March that a decision had been made. The resolution is not about a request to return to Google. The resolution is about the process by which the decision was made, and the consequences of the change that faculty need to be aware of.

Senators suggested adding a few questions to the list of questions: What are the triggering events that caused the change? Was continuity considered in making the change?

A senator commented that this is his 8th year at the college, and MSO365 will be the 4th new system the campus has decided to use. Consequently, he primarily uses his own computing tools for work.

Vote to authorize TLRC to amend questions: 19 in favor, 0 against, 0 abstain.

Vote on the resolution: 24 for, 0 against, 0 abstain. 



Report on State Budget (Minna Barrett)	

SUNY requested $72 million requested, NY State only gave $18 million for PIP. Chancellor is concerned. This is the worst budget we have seen in years.

Len Davis: The budget is very disappointing. Rational tuition has helped the system bring in more professors. Maintenance of effort. TAP Tax. Dream Act did not pass. We did get relief on capital side for critical maintenance, where we got $700,000, but three years ago we got $11 million. Emergency meeting is being called by the Chancellor and SUNY president. We have not had to lay off people since 2003 due to rational tuition.

President of University Faculty Senate (UFS) incorrectly stated that the Dream Act passed, Laura Anker had to correct him and say that it did not. The student assembly representative (at the UFS meeting) said students favored the budget since there was no tuition increases. Laura Anker remarked that she was dismayed by the lack of awareness of the facts.

Senator question: last year, we had same concerns, but the legislature amended the budget to give more to SUNY. Is there a chance that will happen this year? Len Davis: The proposed budget will be finalized 30 days since April 1st, so there is some hope.

UFS Senator Minna Barrett conveyed her remarks at the UFS meeting: “We need to camp out on steps of legislature.  There is no realistic hope that in the next 18 days the money to SUNY will be restored. Scott Walker has dismantled the wonderful University of Wisconsin. We have to get busy, and not just me. Cuomo does not believe in public education.”

Senator comment: There should be a standing committee of the senate that pays attention to the big picture. There seems to be a diffusion of responsibility amongst us. 

Senator comment: CUNY is more organized or active in terms of responding to the budget. 

Senator comment: In 1995, the Board of Trustees" "Rethinking SUNY" produced massive system-wide budget cuts and retrenchments at Old Westbury. Our faculty worked with the college's CFO to produce a Strategic Plan that identified savings in operations. In 2002, the University Senate worked with SUNY budget officials to produce the "Rational Fiscal Policy" report, which called for increased state funding of public higher education. 

Report on LEAP Learning Outcomes (Amanda Frisken)

The Provost asked the GE Committee to address institutional outcomes, as for example Middle States requires. Consequently, the GE Committee and CAP committee chairs met and discussed the Essential Learning Outcomes proposed by LEAP (Liberal Education and America’s Promise)

LEAP is widely used throughout the nation. What do we need to do to become a LEAP school? Is this something the faculty want to do, or do we want to make our own institutional objectives, or do we want to ignore making institutional objectives altogether?

The resolution is asking the faculty to endorse the idea of LEAP, and to work with the Provost towards making our curriculum outcomes in line with LEAP outcomes.

Senator comment: Friendly amendment involving the addition of diversity and social justice to LEAP outcomes.

Senator Comment: CAP committee approved the GE resolution. 

Anthony Barbera commented, “Middle States wants to see college-wide learning outcomes. In 2011 we were able to get by with the GE program, but that’s not really what they were looking for. This LEAP proposal is more in line of what they were looking for.”

Senator Question: What resources are available? Amanda Frisken: College would have to support travel to related conferences, and in the past Patrick has sent a four-person team. 

Dean Nancy Brown commented, “I am concerned about the additional work that faculty must undertake to satisfy LEAP outcomes. The School of Education is already burdened with reporting outcomes to federal, state, and other accreditation agencies.” Anthony Barbera responded, “The second “Be it resolved” addresses that concern – the joint faculty-administrative body will do the work.”

LEAP is not about adding more domain requirements.

Anthony Barbera commented, “Whenever you commit to making a learning goal, you commit to assessing the learning goal. So you can’t make a million learning goals.”

Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (Frank Sanacory)		

Resolution- Digital Design Marketing Minor

Accepted: 22 in favor, 0 opposed, 0 abstentions



Resolution - MS in Childhood Special Education

Accepted: 23 in favor, 0 opposed, 0 abstentions



Senator Comment: what kind of resources are needed? Diana Sukram’s responded, “This program will help us retain some of our undergraduate students that are going elsewhere for MS degree. We have had two new recent hires to help with this program. External reviewers said the proposed program had no major weakness.” Dean Nancy Brown commented that we would be the only school in Long Island offering this program. 



Nominations for 2016-2017 Faculty Senate Chair

Kathy Greenberg was nominated for the position, and accepted the nomination.



Announcements

A faculty member announced: TIAA-CREF is investing in companies that are plundering the Amazon. Faculty should have a discussion about this issue.

Joanne Spadaro announced: Steven Kirkpatrick is retiring May 10th 12:30-4pm celebration. We are also putting together a video, and if you want to send well wishes or photos, please send them to us. 

				A senator announced: This Fall, we will have the 25th year of Faculty Senate at our college.

				Kate Velsor announced that we will have a Faculty Senate meeting on May 13. 

				Ryoko Yamamoto announced a TLRC event next Monday. 

				

				Adjournment: 2:14pm