Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                           Friday, March 27, 2015



Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding.), Fernando Guerrero
(Vice Chair/ML), Robert Gero (Secretary/Treasurer/VA), Minna Barrett
(University Senator), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Caroline Sawyer
(University Senator Alternate/Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-
Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Laura
Anker (First Year Experience), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Jeffrey D’amico
(Accounting), Shalei Simms (MMF Dept.), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence
Education), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Diana Sukhram
(Exceptional Education), Amanda Frisken (American Studies), Michael
Colaneri (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf (English), Juan Galvis (H&P),
Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Laura Limonic
(Sociology), Cary Lange (CAP Committee),  Jacob Heller (FRR Committee).

Excused Senators: Fernando Guerrero (Vice-Chair/ML), Calvin Butts
(President), Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Werner Sbaschnik
(Parliamentarian).

Senators Absent: Kathie Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Costas
Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large), ), Alonzo McCollum (Professional),
Frank C. Ilozue (SGA), Camilla Swasey (SGA), Manya Mascareno (Biological
Studies), Edislav Manetovic (PEL), Shijian Li (Public Health), Chris Hobson
(ARPT Com.), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC), Ryoko Yamamato (TLRC).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP),
Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS).

Visitors Present: Yumi Nicholson (CAD), Candelario Franco (UUP), Xavier
Marechaus (SOE), Lenore Walsh (Athletic Director).


   I. Call to Order: 12:32 pm

  II. Approval of minutes of February 27. 2015

      Minutes delayed until next scheduled meeting of the body


 III. Report of  the Faculty Senate Chair


    • Provost O’Sullivan met with the Faculty Senate Chair before the spring
      2015 break and discussed the resolution on Teacher Evaluations. He was
      supportive of the resolution and is researching the price of the
      Scantron machine.
    • The RABPC met this week. Members agreed that any indices selected from
      the Performance Assessment Matrix, SUNY Excels, should align with the
      Strategic Plan. Also discussed was the need for a comprehensive
      retention plan for the college.
    • RABPC members discussed enrollment projections and identified the
      programs whose enrollments are increasing, others with flat
      enrollments and those currently declining. This is likely a reflection
      of the students’ perceived nature of the job market.
      Overall enrollment projections reflect the decrease in the number of
      high school students on Long Island and across the state.
    • The Resolution to address the New York State Governor’s Budget (2015-
      2016) was circulated to all faculty and the senators voted during the
      most recent spring break. It passed without dissent and was sent to
      the Governor’s Office, all chairs of Assembly and Senate Offices,
      minority and majority, to the Chancellor of the State University, The
      President of the University Faculty Senate who in turn sent it to all
      campus governance leaders in The University Faculty Senate, to the
      President of our campus’s Student Government Association and to the
      President of the State-wide student assembly, as well as our faculty
      listserve.  Yesterday our campus Senate Chair received an e-mail from
      Peter Knuepfer, President of the University Faculty Senate outlining
      the status of the lobbying effort to restore the SUNY budget.  The
      Senate will hear from the United University Professionals when the
      President of our local chapter speaks about the UUP efforts to restore
      the SUNY budget.
    • The ballots for college-wide elections have been sent out to the
      faculty at their home addresses. It is important that you vote and
      when you do, put the marked ballot book in the envelope labeled
      Ballot, fold that Ballot envelope into the one with the return address
      and make sure it is returned to the Senate Office in NAB by Friday
      April 10th. Please remember to sign the return envelope so that the
      election committee knows that it was sent by the right person and that
      it identifies which school is being represented.

  IV. President’s Report

The President was not able to attend.

   V. Provost’s Report

    • The class schedule was made by Ron Welton for departments to fill out
      in order to assign classrooms. Once they are filled out the schedule
      will be adjusted. The more crowded hours in the schedule are the 10:00
      am, 1:00pm, and 5:30pm slots.
    • There is a demand by students to plan their lives at least a year
      ahead. We will be moving to full year course planning/.  A fact sheet
      and template will be sent to departments to address this process.
    • It is important to enter mid-term grades and send the results to the
      Registrar in a timely fashion in order to signal the students at risk
      of failing.
    • A meeting of the two co-chairs of the Middle States Committee, Jacob
      Heller and Anthony Barbera will be held today. Our Middle States
      accreditation is reaffirmed every 5 years. A site visit occurs every
      10 years. Our last visit was in 2011 and at that time a set of
      recommendations was made for our campus. Middle States accepted all of
      our recommendations and made one that they expected us to implement
      calling for a systematically defined assessment plan for the non-
      academic areas of the college. As of June 1, 2016, we have to submit a
      periodic review report including how we will approach this
      recommendation and report and which will be used to reaffirm our
      Middle States accreditation once it is accepted.

  VI. Old Business

    • Discussion of Resolutions

      Members agreed to work on several resolutions in our last Senate
      meeting.
   1. We agreed to consider a resolution supporting the NYS Student Assembly
      position on veteran’s affairs.  Professors Simms and Graf are
      collecting information to create that resolution.
   2. We also agreed to investigate information about state-wide family
      leave policy across SUNY. That is also currently still in progress and
      the point person is Laura Chipley.
   3. As noted in the Chair’s Report, our Budget Resolution passed
      unanimously. Then was widely distributed. The Senate majority Leader,
      Dean Skelos has already acknowledged it...
   4.
 VII. New Business

Cary Lange Chair of CAP

School of Education Proposals for 5 Years Degrees.

    • The five programs are essentially five different versions of the same
      type of program. They are not new programs; rather they are revisions
      and are the combination of two existing programs. One is a bachelor’s
      degree in the subject/content area and now allowing for completion of
      a Master of Arts in Teaching in five years. The five subject/content
      areas are for Social Studies, Mathematics, English, Chemistry and
      Spanish.
    • Each is a 156 credit program. The intention of the School of Education
      is to have a better quality students, and therefore, to require a GPA
      of 3.5 in order to stay in the program and progress to the master’s
      level.
    • Because of the combination of existing programs, there are no resource
      implications for the college.
    • These programs are similar to SOB’s 5 Year Bachelor Master Program
      initiated several years back.
    • The five year period is expected of students attending full time, but
      any student may choose a rate of progress that is slower, as is
      needed.
      The question was called and seconded unanimously. The vote on the
      resolution resulted in 22 in favor, 0 opposed and 1 abstention.

Candelario Franco, President, UUP
Rational Tuition Increases and the Budget.

The UUP agenda is:
    • We want to enhance and invest in SUNY state operated campuses.
    • We are pushing to create a public higher education endowment to
      rebuild the ranks of full time academics and professionals at SUNY and
      CUNY to provide adequate instructional resources and support for New
      York's students.
    • Restore funding to safeguard and improve the access and affordability
      that SUNY's EOP/EOC programs provide for New York.
    • Reject the executive budget's performance-based funding proposal.
    • We want to fully restore the subsidy to SUNY hospitals.
    • We want to reject the proposed teacher preparation policy changes that
      would harm students and teacher preparation programs at SUNY, CUNY and
      private colleges statewide.
    • Regarding the position on selling out the hospitals to investors, the
      assembly rejected the proposal, but the senate proposed a modification
      of the proposal and there is no agreement on that.
    • UUP supports using capital funds for Kings County for development of
      comprehensive public ambulatory care facilities, owned and operated by
      SUNY Downstate University Hospital of Brooklyn, staffed with public
      employees. The Assembly accepted the proposal and the Senate rejected
      it.
    • Our current position is that we don’t get involved in the rational
      tuition plan (part 2) debate, only because tuition increases are only
      a symptom of a larger problem plaguing SUNY: Twenty years of declining
      state support. Without public funding, funds from tuition hikes must
      be used to fill holes in college budgets. The funding must be restored
      to 131.4 million dollars to cover inflationary cost increases for
      SUNY, and a genuine effort must be made to cover all mandatory cost
      increases for SUNY and the SUNY hospitals.

VIII. Announcements

    • The LGBTQ Ad Hoc Committee would like to invite you and your
      department to participate in our 2015 LGBTQ Equality Parade on April
      22 at 12 pm. We are meeting outside of the Panther’s Den (Banner paper
      will be provided) at the Students Union

  IX. Adjournment at 2:15. March. 27