SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FULL FACULTY MEETING
Friday, April 23, 2004
12:30 — 2:45 pm

Report of the Faculty Senate Chair, Kate Velsor
The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate has had a great relation with the administration
and we thank them because it has made a great difference for a campus-based

assessment in what we could accomplish, including:

The issue of 3-credit vs 4-credit courses; establishment of a committee to resolve issues related

the to the Office for Students with Special needs and Disabilities (OSSD); establishment
of a committee to reevaluate equity in salaries, including variables of rank, gender and
ethnicity; and we have considered the capital use and land use plans.

The Chair is grateful that the Faculty executive committee has had a positive and responsive
relationship with the administration.
Announcement of upcoming campus events:
Old Westbury will host a statewide Health and Safety conference

On Tuesday, Old Westbury will hold its the 27" Alumni Association.
Discussion:
Heda Lewittes thanks Kate Velsor for rising to the occasion of taking on the responsibility of
Chair of the Faculty Senate.
;
Minutes of last Full Faculty meeting February 6, 2004
Corrections:
p. 2 — point 6 of Dr. Cox’s report should read: Jim Llana and Dr. Cox met with North Shore
Community Hospital and with Dr. Scherr, the Dean of Medicine (regarding language

classes, health internships and other areas of cooperation).
p. 3 - last point of the Old Westbury Foundation report should read: Jim Llana of the
Department of Humanities and Languages is also working on funding.

The February 6 minutes were accepted as corrected.
Resident’s report by Dr Butts

Dr. Butts is also grateful to the executive committee and to the full faculty who shed a different
light on ways of seeing things.
Review for NCATE and Middle States accreditation.

June to help with preparations.

Faculty should be on campus through

Enrollment is up 22% for first year applications and there is a 4% increase in transfer
applications. Retention of students is still a challenge.
At Winthrop Community Hospital Br. Butts been has recognized by many people and he sees

the building of relations as a possibility for the College at Old Westbury.
Dr. Butts has asked the Chancellor’s office to allow us to grow at levels we can achieve rather

than at the desired level of growth projected for SUNY campuses.
Besides equity in salaries, there several maintenance issues that are being considered — blinds,

screens, etc. — to improve the teaching and learning environment.

Soon should have a new person for Director of Facilities.
The administration is also looking for a campus webmaster, which is critical to improving our
image online.
We will be running a radio ad for the graduate program in Accounting.
Discussion
Question: At Executive Committee meeting, there was mention of hiring someone to pay
attention to situation on campus, and a plan to hire two people for facilities and

appearance; please clarify:
Answer: One is the Director of Facilities and the other is related to overseeing the construction
of the Capital Plan.

Report by Academic Vice Pres. Cox

Housekeeping chore — we need a policy regarding the graduating students. “Whereas the Board
of Trustees is in favor of each program deciding the eligibility of its students to
graduate, it is proposed that the list of graduates be compiled and approved by each
respective department.”
The proposal was moved by Hedva and seconded. The proposal was unanimously accepted.
Dr. Cox thanks the faculty for a great year. Yesterday’s ceremony was great, and suggests a

great graduation ceremony.

Special thanks to Senate, the executive committee and especially all the Faculty committees.

Congrats to Roz Bauxandall for being recognized and awarded as a Hlslineushod professor.

Carolyn Cocca’s book has been recently published.
We will begin a pilot Honors program with a couple courses to start, since having a fledgling

program makes it easier to raise money.

Scheduling — we have a few more evening classes and some 8 am classes in the effort to gain a
larger share of the student market.

We have worked with Cornell and Nassau Community College to plan coordinating programs
of study for the future.
A social studies internship is being arranged with Nassau County.
We are working to increase the fulltime faculty for the summer school classes by providing
extra salaries for courses, in order not to let the bulk of the work to be carried by
adjuncts.
Credit count of 9000 hours enrolment is critical for the summer school.

We need to work harder to make a smoother process for transferring students coming into Old

Westbury.
We must do more to speed up the time of academic searches and do more in terms of minority
hiring — and we need more retention of students by making them want to be in our
classes.
The scheduling and sequencing of courses must be reviewed and geared to retention.
Ongoing faculty openings exist in biological sciences, math & computer & information,

sociology, teacher education, librarian, Director of libraries, English, and in Humanities

and Languages.
P.J. Harlan’s position is being filled by Dr. Gene Peyer who will be here in May to provide
information and promote faculty efforts to prepare research grant proposals.
Will be cailing faculty at home, if there is a need in preparing for the upcoming accreditation

procedures.

Report on ballots and election by B. Hillery

The list of declinations was read, and the floor was opened for new nominations.
was made by and passed to close the nominations.

A motion

Capital (BPC) report by T DelGiudice

Vision for the exteriors involves landscaping, and is user-friendly. Today, the architectural
visions were inspiring and exciting.
Promise is done but the timing is not so simple. For example, the planning for central heating
was approved only in past two weeks. Another challenge is presented by the state
comptroller’s office. Promise is for 32 million (compared to a 24 million original

proposal for much less work).

The last plan for the new buildings had problems, but

here it is for repairing and every penny is being discussed.
We have planned to replace service buildings’ roofs, paths, sidewalks, roads, terraces & roofs.

At Academic Village — all steps are to be redesigned and paved — maybe involve some
inconvenience.

Campus signage & aprons are to be fixed and a new one is to be added.
In the plan is a total upgrade for wiring — we will have new high-speed data jacks in all

classrooms and offices and this should increase our bargaining power with Verizon or

others for telephone service.

Presentation rooms — have will fixed podiums with white or wipe boards in all rooms, and will
have presentation devices.

At the 2™ level we will have the infrastructure to add projection if necessary.
At the 3

level we will have regular features but with data outlets for use of portable TVs.

Architects are to open up the front entrance, or open up a new entrance with the tall trees. We
are also talking about facades.

We are now in the process of picking vendors.

Campus center — we need to neaten and/or clean up the CC — we need some curb appeal to

attract parents and potential students — we could reorganize with the bursar and registrar

in the old bookstore space of the c.c. We also project cleaning up the interior — with a

budget of $1 million.

We need 1.5 million for generators — since they were ruined during

the brownout last August.
We still have ten million dollars and there may be another five.
Discussion of disabled access for students — we need upgrades to provide all students access to
3" floor offices.
The athletic center and pools are being repaired and updated.
Technology — there is a conference downstate at stony Brook — we need to reconsider our use
of Blackboard, which has have doubled the cost for our campus. Alternatives exist but
they are not so easy to use. Many labs are being recycled over the summer.

The Land Use plan

Student Life Report by C. Sawyer
Nine — ten meetings through the year and collect information, with idea of making proposals in
three areas: facilities, student conduct, and programs on campus.

Malfunctioning access doors and need for ramps and accessible entrances in dorms and

elsewhere, need for more computers and entrances too small, also steep slope to get into

_ the dorms.
Survey with Bill Lupardo’s office on student perceptions of their access and other issues.

Lighting between parking lots and dorms and inadequate snow removal. Keep list of facilities

needing repair.
Programming — issues & providing treatment and information on substance abuse. Last year
many sessions about lack of programming and exra-curricular activities.
Student conduct (regarding regulation of) — how to bring charges and how police determine

whether the misconduct is campus-only or actually breaking laws and managing to
distinguish between criminal and non-criminal. ALSO worked out an harassment policy.

Harassment through office of Mona Rankin but not many details on where students
should go or how they should file a complaint.
Question: Could new VP for Student Affairs take responsibility?
Old bus.
New Business — Continuing — Service learning Meeting adjourned at 2:45 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Eloise Linger, Secretary-Treasurer, Faculty Senate and Senator for PES