SUNY Faculty Council of Community Colleges and University Faculty Senate
Joint Statement on the Search for the SUNY Chancellor
The imminent departure of Chancellor Kristina Johnson offers the State University of New York
Board of Trustees a rare opportunity to engage the entire SUNY System and its multiple and
diverse perspectives. At a time of unprecedented physical and fiscal challenges and stresses
facing higher education, the Board’s process for selecting Chancellor Johnson’s successor must
be open and transparent and serve as a model for shared governance across the System. Such
a process will not only let SUNY identify the best possible candidates, but also give the next
Chancellor a greater chance to succeed in our shared mission of educating nearly one half
million students. A search overseen by a committee that represents the interests and
experiences of the entire spectrum of stakeholders within and outside SUNY is required.
The previous search committee for the SUNY Chancellor had 22 members, composed of eight
Trustees (including the two faculty trustees and the student trustee), five presidents of SUNY
institutions (representing the full range of types of campuses in the system), and nine members
of the general public, including prominent alumni and academic, business, and political leaders.
The committee reached strong consensus on final candidates. Those candidates held stellar
publication records, rich research portfolios, private sector experience, and leadership at
prestigious universities and systems of higher education.
Secrecy has increasingly become the modus operandi of search committees, particularly for
senior leadership. This is anathema to our philosophy of inclusive shared governance for SUNY
as an institution. Conversely, when a final group of candidates has been identified by the
search committee, it is important that candidates be vetted beyond the search committee so that
a broader cross-section of parties can offer their own insights of the finalists. More eyes may
see something about candidates that may not have been clear to the search committee, which
is why inclusivity of the process is vital. We believe that the incoming Chancellor would be in a
stronger position following a search that adheres to principles of shared governance, with the
full confidence of faculty, staff, students, and campus leadership.
In September 2015, the SUNY Board passed a landmark resolution on Diversity, Equity, and
Inclusion, which promises a commitment to the recruitment, hiring, and professional
development of administrators, faculty, and staff of color and other identities. Particularly during
a national climate of racial unrest, it is a time for SUNY to renew and follow through on this
commitment to diversity and inclusion. A broad-based national search provides the mechanism
to honor this commitment. To bypass this in a process that excludes participation and
engagement is exactly contrary to the reasons the Diversity Resolution was approved. We have
urged our sixty-four campuses and SUNY System Administration to abide by these principles in
recruitment, hiring, and development in order to grow a system that looks like our richly diverse
student body.
Therefore, the two SUNY faculty governance bodies, the Faculty Council of Community
Colleges and the University Faculty Senate, urge the SUNY Board of Trustees to move forward

with a national search for the next Chancellor, overseen by a broadly based search committee.
We look forward to working with the Board to ensure SUNY’s commitment to shared
governance and equity/inclusion, and SUNY’s continued status as a national leader in higher
education.