STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, February 5, 2021

12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), John Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Orquidea Morales (AS), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gilic (EE, Senator-At-Large (SOE)), Deepa Jani (EN), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Sara Williamson (MMF), Sarah Smith (PH), Erik Benau (PY), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA, TLRC), Jillian Crocker (ARPT), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Danielle Lee (LEC), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE)



Visitors: Malini Kumar, Frank Pizzardi, Lisa Chin, Margaret Torrell, Dinorah Martinez, Evan Kobolakis, Elena Smirnova, Lorenz Neuwirth, Ashok Basawapatna, Renu Balyan, Myong Kim, Thomas Rico, Youngjoo Kim, Ozgur Akgun, Timothy Sams, Svetlana Jovic, Patricia Harris, Rahwa Haile, Nicole Sieben, Usama Shaikh, Cris Notaro, Shebuti Rayana, Barbara Hillery, patrick cadet, Edward Bever, Rachel Kalish, Claudia Marin Andrade, Keisha Goode, Anthony Barbera, Timothy Strout, Joanne Spadaro, Betty Berbari, Martha Livingston, Manya Mascareno, Gilda Zwerman, Kinning Poon, Juan Pablo Galvis, Robert Hoyte, Carol Quirke, Rose Muzio, Tejas Bouklas, Solomon Chak, Danielle Collins, Wayne Edwards, Yogesh More, Jermaine Archer, Patrick O'Brien, Thomas Lilly, Lisa Payton, Ashlee Lien



Roster of Senators Absent: Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Laura Anker (FY), Doyoung Park (MACS), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Hana Elgoarany (SGA)



Minutes

Call to Order								

Approval of Minutes for Dec 4, 2020				

The minutes are not available at this time.  The Executive Committee apologizes; they will be available at the next Faculty Senate meeting.



Chair’s Report	

Welcome President Sams! Thank you for engaging with faculty governance.

The Cr/NC resolution and the Innovation Labs were both examples of great collaboration efforts between various crucial bodies on campus.  Congratulations to the committees, and to our campus for generating good policies and moving in a collaborative direction for our campus.



We want to continue to collaborate with President Sams on Bylaws revisions including SPAAR and RABPC.  We have teams drafting language to create a functional budget committee.  We look forward to great collaboration and substantive discussions in strategic planning and budgeting.  We are also revisiting the Consultation Clause.  We have challenges ahead with enrollment on our campus.  Faculty should get involved since we have great knowledge about our programs, speak to your Department Chairs regarding enrollment initiatives.  Regarding the Consultation Clause, it is clarified as a point of information that it does exist in the Bylaws already.  Suffice it to say we are revisiting it.



UFS Plenary has a specific meeting for CGL (campus governance leaders) across SUNY campuses. There are many challenges, but we are doing a great job of weathering the storm.  Much credit is due to both faculty and administration.  Main themes included transitioning back to in-person instruction and corresponding challenges.



For ARPT there has been a transition to the Interfolio system so that the process is now entirely electronic.  Congratulations to everyone who made this happen including Academic Affairs and ARPT.  As we emerge from this difficult time, we will come out stronger.  This is a great example.

Vaccine rollout is encouraging. This is great. Remember to make your appointments, for all those over 65.



Join the after-party for a more informal discussion.  The Chair’s new dog is very cute. :)





President’s Report							

Welcome to everyone from President Sams, as he joins from Houston.  Great to see so many increasingly familiar faces.  This will not be a traditional President’s Report since he has only been here for 3 weeks, but Pres. Sams wishes to talk about vision. 



The SWOT analysis gives good insight to challenges moving forward.  For the next few months Pres. Sams will listen and learn.  Of course, he will have a vision, but he will also learn about everyone on campus.  He wants to be a responsible, meaningful, and engaged President.  He spoke with folks from the School of Education earlier today.



We need to pay attention to enrollment, raising funds, space on campus, building community and breaking down silos, becoming an employer of choice, feeling respected, supporting faculty, retaining faculty, and remaining a mission-driven institution.  Our mission is our north star.  We will pay attention to our brand.  We are a hidden gem, but we should not be hidden, we should be a gem that everyone knows about.  We should not be sitting on potential we should be realizing potential.  Signature programs are crucial to demonstrate our value as well as undergraduate research to open up opportunities to students after graduation.  We want to receive magnificent post-grad talent who align with our mission.  Pres. Sams loves the residential college model.



The makeup of the cabinet is different under Pres. Sams now, and this represents the values of the campus.  Leadership is core to excellence.  Excellence should be the first thing that comes to mind with our campus.  Academics leads our institution.  We have changed the makeup of our cabinet.



Pres. Sams wants to hear from everyone, thanks to all.  Contact Colleen Woods for scheduling to meet and talk with Pres. Sams.  Pres. Sams congratulates faculty Rahwa Haile on BLM work.  This is one of many things that has convinced him he has come to the right campus.  Pres. Sams is excited to be here, and he is excited about the mission of the campus!  We have so much talent, but many don’t know about us.



Provost’s Report		

Thanks to Pres. Sams and FS Chair Kavic.  Having a new leadership model is exciting.  



We added close to 100 additional students in the add-drop period.  This can be disruptive, thanks to faculty for their cooperation.  Use academic support to connect with these students.  Enrollment is still down about 280 students, but compared to where we were a few weeks ago it was double this number and even greater at the end of last semester.



Faculty diversity plan is implemented by PRODiG initiative.  We want to close the gap between the diversity of the student body and the diversity of faculty.  We have 3 new PRODiG-eligible faculty.  We will update regarding faculty diversity again soon at the next FS meeting.  There is a PRODiG fellowship program that targets postdocs and also students across all disciplines.  There is also an NIH program.  There is a rolling application process.  There was an ad in the Chronicle, make sure colleagues apply.



Assoc. Provost Hillery reminds us all that students should fill out the form for technology assistance including laptop loaners, see “student device request form” in the portal.  Feel free to also email Barbara Hillery directly. From the laptops loaned last year, 36 requested renewal.  Those who are not registered this semester will not be able to renew.  There are 52 new laptop request forms.  We have not had to deny students.  Encourage students to reach out.



Assistant Dean Notaro speaks regarding Wellness Week.  On Monday the library will be available for commons or study rooms.  Students will use Navigate to make appointments to match occupancy limits.  Students will be notified, also see webpage where instructions are available.  Of course, students need to follow Covid testing rules.  Email Cris with questions.



Asst. VP of Academic Affairs Barbera speaks regarding Middle States.  This week we will send the self-study report. Thanks to everyone who submitted comments on the self-study.  Dr. Sams is also involved in the process.  Those on the steering committee please send your votes.  March 21-24 we will have a Middle States virtual visit.  Between now and then they will ask us questions, expect to be contacted before the visit regarding questions from Middle States as needed.  We look forward to a positive result.



UFS Report			

The plenary was virtual and focused on Covid.  Concerns included moving back to in-person instruction in fall and spring as well as testing requirements.  UUP is involved with these questions.  Students are mostly not contracting the virus in classes with one known exception. We are doing  well since we don’t have students on campus.  Students may contract off campus.  We want to move to 100% testing.  We don’t know about the fall semester.  



Regarding the budget, this situation is seemingly just as bad as last year.  There are no proposed cuts to EOP, Excelsior, Executive Budget.  Furlows of faculty is last resort.  Our raises are delayed until 2022-2023.  The final budget from the state legislature will be available in June.  



The new Chancellor was positive and cooperative.  He does not seem as invested in the SUNY Online Initiative.  He says we should learn lessons from our remote teaching, but the online initiative may or may not expand.  He seems open to increasing enrollment no matter what the medium.  We can accommodate students in a variety of contexts



A UFS resolution supported our negotiation with Elsevier, and so they negotiated more with us in the deal.  The SUNY library used analytics to see what journals we were using.  Many were available via open access.  If we had to leave our relationship with Elsevier we would be okay, so this also gave us more negotiating power.  We now have a new contract.  A resolution can have an impact, and it did in this instance.



There was discussion on number of contact hours and definitions regarding contact hours.  The Chancellor will work with our campus.



There will be no early retirement incentives, but these decisions are also determined locally on each campus.



The UFS resolutions are available with the document meetings (see link above).  The resolutions included: shared governance, consultation in priority areas of safety and fiscal crisis, Black Lives Matter and anti-racism, eliminating white supremacy.  In future there may be a resolution regarding the events in D.C. on Jan 6th.





UUP Report			

UUP President Livingston reports that we are in court regarding the salary raises.  When they are finally put into effect they will be retroactive.  If you are not teaching 6 credits (or equivalent) then faculty are losing health care benefits.  This is a problem for labs in sciences.  UUP  will address these issues.  UUP is fighting for taxes on wealthy including non-residents living in luxury homes who pay no taxes.  UUP is fighting to reinstate the stock transfer tax.  Look for links to participate including virtual events.  Talk to your local legislatures.



Please fill out the ballot forms!  It is required to be on-paper because a signature is required.  People who are nominated must confirm that they accept a nomination.  You can self-nominate to attend NYSUT representative assembly as a delegate.  



UUP is eager to meet with Pres. Sams.  It is mandated that the President attend a meeting with UUP.



Next membership meeting next Wed 1pm, announcement to follow.  



TLRC and UUP will hold To Tenure And Beyond workshop Wed Feb 12th at 1pm.  It is exciting that we are now transitioning away from paper binders to using Interfolio.  





SGA Report		

Apologies to the Old Westbury community for going to the press.  SGA President Metellus loves Old Westbury and cares about our campus.  SGA elections are coming up.  SGA is also working on increasing student clubs.  SGA has many awards for various areas.  SGA has worked with students for access to wifi and technology assistance.  Remember there is a form for students to fill out on the student portal, the wifi request form is in the same place as the laptop request form.  The Student Emergency Fund has money, there is an application process through Scholarship America.  Information will be available on the website soon.



SGA is recording an awards show, contact them with talents.  There will be 7 performances, presenters, and a host.  There will be a drive-in movie night, stay tuned.



SGA VP Ogunlade comments on requiring students to turn on cameras during class time.  Students take class from their rooms, their cars, their living rooms.  Students do not think that teaching to black screens is a good enough reason to require cameras on. Cameras being on is irrelevant, and some faculty are passive-aggressive regarding this topic.  Professors should be focused on teaching, not focusing on seeing student’s faces.  FS Chair comments that this issue is being referred to the APPC.  FS Chair commends SGA for voicing their concerns, and thanks SGA for coming to faculty with their concerns.  Faculty comments that students should communicate with their Professors regarding exceptions.  Faculty comments that they are working with students one-on-one based on their personal situations.  We should focus on respectful communication.  FS Chair reassures that we will return to this issue, but we need to move the meeting along.



Unanimous consent is granted to allow the meeting to run until 2:50pm.



Cr/NC Resolution	

This was a collaboration between students, APPC, the Executive Committee, the Registrar, and Academic Affairs.  J. D’Ambroise presents the resolution. This is not an emergency procedure, it is a permanent solution.  Due to Covid we are reevaluating policies.  Students and faculty need more time to track progress, and aligning the deadlines for Cr/NC and Withdrawal would streamline the policy.  Cr/NC requires instructor permission while Withdrawal does not.  Simply aligning the deadline dates is the major proposal here.



Will this create extra workload for the Registar?  See resolution statement, the resolution states aligning the dates will streamline workload for the Registrar.



The vote will be held online so Senators will have time to consult with their departments.



Faculty asks why do we need instructor approval?  When there was not instructor approval some students did not understand Cr/NC would not count for major courses.  Students should be well-informed before making Cr/NC decisions.  Note that the faculty permission has actually not changed here, the resolution is simply aligning the deadlines.



Faculty asks whether Cr/NC affects financial aid?  Yes, if they get credit students may retain financial aid without affecting GPA.  Keep in mind that financial aid is a complicated question and this may not be a blanket statement.



Faculty asks whether the 7th week deadline is optimal, since this is before midterm grades?  This is a separate issue (among others).  APPC will separately consider changing the deadline.  This resolution is only regarding aligning the dates.  The actual date being at the 7th week may be reconsidered later.



Faculty asks whether students are limited in the total number of Cr/NC they can do?  Again, this is a separate issue that will be considered by APPC. 



Student comments that many classes do not necessarily get work within the first three weeks, so three weeks is not enough time to track their progress.  It is also not enough time to consult with departments.  Students should have the ability to opt in and be informed.  Students support moving the date from the 3rd to the 7th week.



The vote will be electronic. See forthcoming email for deadline info.



TLRC Resolution 	

E. Hagan presents the resolution.  The Be-It-Resolved statement is read aloud.  Please see attached meeting documents (link above).  The resolution is accepted and will be discussed at the next meeting.



Amended senate meeting schedule		

The schedule called for 3 meetings in 3 weeks, so we would prefer to adopt the proposed new schedule making the meetings every two weeks.  The new schedule is confirmed by unanimous vote.



Sharing of Concerns/Announcements

Nominations for Chancellors Awards in various areas are due Feb 16th.  The on-campus deadline was Jan 15th, and is now closed.  The awards are being packaged for the President, and the Feb. deadline is the SUNY deadline.



The CIRC committee will have a meeting, you will receive an email soliciting proposals. 



SGA faculty and student engagement awards.

TLRC and UUP will hold To Tenure And Beyond workshop Wed Feb 12th at 1pm, announcement forthcoming.



Adjournment

Thank you!