Faculty	  Senate	  Meeting	  
Friday,	  December	  6,	  2013	  
Minutes	  

	  
	  
Senators	  Presents:	  Duncan	  Quarless	  (Chair,	  presiding),	  Shalei	  Simms	  (Vice-­‐Chair/MMF	  
Dept.),	  Kerwin	  Kaye	  (Secretary/Treasurer/Sociology),	  Jacob	  Heller	  (Parliamentarian),	  
Minna	  Barrett	  (University	  Senator),	  Cristina	  Notaro	  (At-­‐Large	  Rep.	  to	  Exec.	  
Committee/H&P),	  Kathie	  Greenberg	  (Senator	  at-­‐Large),	  Costas	  Hadjicharalambous	  
(Senator	  At-­‐Large),	  Caroline	  Sawyer	  (Univ.	  Senator	  Alternate/Senator	  At-­‐Large),	  (Kathleen	  
Velsor	  (At-­‐Large),	  Alonzo	  McCollum	  (Professional),	  Ana	  Martinez	  (Professional),	  Camilla	  
Swasey,	  (Student	  Gov’t.	  Assoc.),	  Laura	  Anker	  (First	  Year	  Experience),	  	  Curt	  Friehs	  (Library),	  
Jeffrey	  D’amico	  (Accounting),	  Samara	  Smith	  (TLCR/American	  Studies),	  Amara	  Graf	  
(English),	  Frank	  Sanacory	  (Math/CIS),	  Fernando	  	  Guerrero	  (Modern	  Languages),	  Fred	  
Millan	  (Psychology),	  Robert	  Gero	  (Visual	  Arts),	  Cary	  Lange	  (CAP	  Com.),	  Alireza	  Ebrahimi	  
(TLRC).	  	  
	  
Senators	  Absent:	  Manya	  Mascareno	  (Senator	  At-­‐Large/Biology),	  Marc	  Kettler	  
(Professional),	  Nick	  Savva	  (Student	  Gov’t.	  Assoc.),	  Elenna	  Geffrard	  (Student	  Gov’t.	  Assoc.),	  	  
Jeanne	  Shimizu	  (Adolescence	  Education),	  Stephanie	  Schneider	  (Childhood	  Education),	  
vacant	  (Exceptional	  Education),	  Ruomei	  Gao	  (Chemistry	  &	  Physics),	  	  Tom	  Delgiudice	  (PEL),	  
Shijian	  Li	  (Public	  Health),	  Christopher	  Hobson	  (ARPT	  Com.),	  Zenaida	  Madurka	  (HLCC)	  .	  
	  
Non-­‐Voting	  Members	  of	  the	  Senate	  Present:	  Calvin	  Butts	  (President),	  Patrick	  O’Sullivan	  
(Provost/AVP),	  Anthony	  Barbera	  (Dean,	  SOB).	  
	  	  
Visitors	  Present:	  Paul	  Vroman	  (Big	  Data	  student	  representative),	  Rafat	  Sada	  (Enrollment),	  
Llana	  Barber	  (GE/SOE),	  Jermaine	  Archer	  (American	  Studies),	  Patricia	  Smith	  (Registrar),	  
Hedva	  Lewittes	  (Psychology),	  Ron	  Welton	  (AVP	  Academic	  Affairs),	  Carol	  Quirke	  (American	  
Studies),	  Ashlee	  Lien	  (Psychology),	  Dinorah	  Martinez	  (recording).	  
	  
	  
I.	  Call	  to	  Order:	  12:36	  pm	  	  
	  
II.	  The	  minutes	  from	  the	  November	  15th	  meeting	  were	  not	  available,	  will	  be	  posted	  to	  
website	  for	  review.	  
	  
III.	  Faculty	  Senate	  Chair’s	  Report	  (see	  separate	  Chair’s	  Report)	  
	  
§ Executive	  Committee	  will	  issue	  a	  proclamation	  regarding	  Nelson	  Mandela	  and	  
distribute	  
	  
§ Paul	  Vroman,	  SUNY	  Fellow	  on	  Big	  Data,	  was	  acknowledged	  by	  Faculty	  Senate.	  He	  
attended	  SUNY	  conference	  on	  big	  data’s	  impact	  in	  academic	  institution.	  
1	  

	  

	  

	  

	  
§ Motion	  carried	  to	  table	  Hate	  Speech	  resolution	  
§ Resolutions	  on	  College	  Culture	  and	  Social	  Justice	  Curriculum	  Component	  presented	  by	  
Exec.	  Comm.	  for	  consideration	  
o Vote	  to	  be	  taken	  in	  Spring	  2014	  
o Resolutions	  to	  be	  distributed	  to	  full	  faculty	  
	  
§ Motion	  carried	  to	  reinstate	  distribution	  of	  Senate	  information	  to	  full	  faculty	  list	  
	  
§ Review	  of	  bylaws	  has	  been	  asked	  of	  all	  committee	  chairs	  
o Exec.	  Comm.	  is	  working	  on	  a	  removal	  from	  office	  clause	  	  
§ RABPC	  committee	  still	  waiting	  on	  approval	  of	  member	  list	  
	  
§ Ad	  Hoc	  sexual	  harassment	  committee	  to	  be	  re-­‐	  established	  
o Committee	  and	  new	  charge	  as	  currently	  written	  is	  on	  website	  	  
	  
§ New	  system	  for	  Master	  Scheduling	  to	  be	  implemented	  Spring	  2014	  

	  
	  
IV.	  President’s	  Report	  
	  
§ College	  facing	  an	  enrollment	  issue,	  1	  percent	  decline	  and	  3	  percent	  from	  goal	  resulting	  
in	  a	  shortfall	  of	  1.3	  million	  dollars	  
	  
§ One	  enrollment	  issue	  is	  the	  course	  schedule,	  there	  will	  be	  consultation	  with	  faculty	  but	  
decisions	  and	  changes	  must	  be	  made	  soon	  
	  
§ The	  college	  is	  getting	  pressure	  to	  address	  revision	  in	  our	  current	  offering	  to	  address	  
enrollment	  issues	  and	  graduation	  rates.	  
	  
§ OW	  will	  be	  meeting	  with	  NCC	  and	  SCCC	  regarding	  Seamless	  Transfer	  
	  
§ Branding	  process	  should	  be	  in	  place	  spring	  2014	  
	  
	  
**Motion	  carried	  to	  extend	  meeting	  30	  minutes.	  
	  
	  
V.	  Provost’s	  Report	  
	  
§ Distributed	  3	  handouts	  
o Joint	  task	  force	  charge	  of	  General	  Education	  
-­‐Provost	  will	  put	  together	  notes	  on	  final	  Gen	  Ed	  results	  
2	  

	  

	  
o Profile	  of	  graduates	  
-­‐Mean	  number	  of	  credit	  on	  graduation	  on	  three	  schools	  
-­‐Average	  number	  of	  semesters	  to	  graduation	  
-­‐Each	  department	  should	  be	  reviewing	  their	  number	  
	  
§ Ron	  Welton	  presented	  information	  on	  course	  schedule	  utilization	  (handout)	  
o Does	  not	  include	  graduate	  courses	  	  
o Difficulty	  with	  hybrid	  
o There	  is	  a	  disproportionate	  number	  of	  courses	  offered	  at	  10:20	  and	  1pm	  and	  
not	  offered	  at	  8:30	  am	  and	  8:20	  pm	  
	  

§ Town	  halls	  with	  students	  emphasize	  student	  issues	  with	  schedule.	  Eliminating	  
common	  hour	  is	  one	  idea.	  There	  will	  be	  a	  survey	  of	  students	  for	  Gen.	  Ed.	  and	  
scheduling,	  common	  hour.	  	  Changes	  will	  be	  targeted	  for	  Spring	  2015	  

	  
	  
VI.	  Committee	  Reports	  	  
	  
§ 	  Gen.	  Ed.	  Committee	  report	  (C.	  Sawyer	  and	  L.	  Barber)	  will	  be	  rescheduled	  to	  a	  special	  
Faculty	  Senate	  meeting	  on	  the	  consequences	  of	  the	  SUNY	  BOT	  directives	  regarding	  
General	  Education	  and	  Seamless	  Transfer	  on	  OW.	  	  Date	  to	  be	  determined	  (December	  
or	  January)	  and	  full	  faculty	  will	  be	  notified.	  
	  
	  
VII.	  Old	  Business	  	  
	  
§ CAP	  Resolution	  on	  Modern	  Language	  Minor	  passes	  
	  
§ CAP	  Resolution	  on	  5	  Year	  Review	  passes	  
	  
	  
VIII.	  New	  Business	  (Walk-­‐In	  item)	  	  
	  
	  
None	  
	  
IX.	  Announcements	  	  
	  
	  
None	  
	  
X.	  Adjournment:	  3:36	  PM	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
3