ARPT	  Committee	  

	  

ARPT	  Report	  for	  Academic	  Year	  2012–2013	  
	  
Duncan	  Quarless,	  Chair,	  Faculty	  Senate	  
Christopher	  Hobson,	  Jingyi	  Song,	  Co-­‐Chairs,	  2012–2013	  
ARPT	  Annual	  Report	  2012–2013	  
February	  1,	  2014	  

TO:	  
FROM:	  
SUBJECT:	  
DATE:	  
	  
This	  report	  covers	  ARPT’s	  actions	  in	  the	  2012–2013	  Academic	  Year	  and	  is	  overdue,	  since	  the	  
Bylaws	  provide	  for	  annual	  reports	  to	  be	  submitted	  by	  August	  1	  following	  the	  conclusion	  of	  the	  
academic	  year.	  We	  apologize	  for	  the	  delay.	  
	  
ARPT’s	  major	  problem	  in	  2012–2013,	  as	  in	  some	  earlier	  years,	  was	  a	  difficulty	  in	  filling	  all	  positions.	  
This	  problem	  occurs	  because	  ARPT	  is	  a	  high-­‐workload	  committee,	  meeting	  three	  Fridays	  a	  month	  
for	  most	  of	  the	  fall	  and	  spring	  semesters;	  members	  must	  take	  substantial	  time	  before	  meetings	  to	  
read	  files.	  Nonetheless,	  the	  committee’s	  work	  is	  vital	  and,	  if	  we	  may	  so	  express	  it,	  satisfying:	  we	  
contribute	  materially	  to	  the	  job	  of	  creating	  the	  best	  possible	  faculty	  for	  the	  College.	  In	  2012–2013,	  
ARPT	  began	  the	  year	  with	  only	  five	  positions	  filled,	  and	  one	  member	  stepped	  down	  to	  become	  
chair	  of	  a	  Department.	  The	  remaining	  three	  positions	  were	  filled	  by	  appointment,	  thanks	  to	  hard	  
work	  by	  then-­‐Senate	  chair	  Jacob	  Heller.	  
	  
Drs.	  Jingyi	  Song	  (HP)	  and	  Christopher	  Hobson	  (EL)	  were	  elected	  co-­‐chairs	  for	  2012–2013.	  During	  
the	  year,	  ARPT	  considered	  23	  cases:	  eight	  first	  reappointments,	  one	  second	  reappointment,	  nine	  
third	  (year-­‐to-­‐tenure-­‐review)	  reappointments,	  and	  five	  tenure/promotion	  cases.	  There	  was	  very	  
little	  controversy	  at	  any	  level	  about	  these	  cases.	  In	  all	  23	  cases,	  ARPT	  supported	  the	  same	  outcome	  
(reappointment	  or	  tenure/promotion)	  as	  the	  Department,	  and	  the	  eventual	  Administrative	  
decision	  supported	  the	  same	  outcome.	  
	  
In	  three	  cases,	  involving	  two	  Departments,	  the	  Departments	  recommended	  three-­‐year	  initial	  
reappointments	  for	  candidates	  they	  felt	  were	  exceptionally	  strong;	  all	  three	  Department	  votes	  
were	  unanimous.	  ARPT	  supported	  the	  recommendations	  for	  three-­‐year	  reappointments—
unanimously	  in	  one	  case,	  by	  majority	  in	  two	  (with	  the	  other	  votes	  supporting	  two	  years).	  In	  all	  
three	  cases,	  the	  Administrative	  decision	  was	  for	  a	  two-­‐year	  initial	  reappointment,	  sending,	  in	  our	  
view,	  a	  clear	  signal	  that	  Administration	  is	  strongly	  committed	  to	  the	  norm	  of	  two-­‐year	  
reappointment	  steps	  and	  will	  consider	  exceptions	  only	  very	  rarely.	  
	  
A	  report	  from	  Provost	  O’Sullivan	  detailing	  the	  cases,	  Department	  and	  ARPT	  votes,	  and	  outcomes	  is	  
attached.