What is Social Justice?

From the Department  of Government and Justice Studies
Matthew Robinson, PhD

Appalachian State University 2015. All rights reserved.
Mailing address: Department of Government & Justice Studies - Appalachian
State University - PO Box 32107 - Boone, NC 28608-32107
Physical address: 2013 Anne Belk Hall - Boone, NC 28608-32107
Phone number: 828-262-3085
Fax number: 828-262-2947

Appalachian State University has been developing a Center for Social
Justice and has developed a web discussion about justice, equity and
inequality. To read all of the information, please access the site
@Appalachian State University, Department of Government and Justice Studies

Social justice is defined as "... promoting a just society by challenging
injustice and valuing diversity." It exists when "all people share a common
humanity and therefore have a right to equitable treatment, support for
their human rights, and a fair allocation of community resources." In
conditions of social justice, people are "not be discriminated against, nor
their welfare and well-being constrained or prejudiced on the basis of
gender, sexuality, religion, political affiliations, age, race, belief,
disability, location, social class, socioeconomic circumstances, or other
characteristic of background or group membership" (Toowoomba Catholic
Education, 2006).

Social justice is generally equated with the notion of equality or equal
opportunity in society. Although equality is undeniably part of social
justice, the meaning of social justice is actually much broader (Scherlen
and Robinson, 2008). Further, "equal opportunity" and similar phrases such
as "personal responsibility" have been used to diminish the prospective for
realizing social justice by justifying enormous inequalities in modern
society (Berry, 2005). The most recent theories of and scholarly statements
about social justice illustrate the complex nature of the concept.

(A general Google search yields the above listed definition as posted by
Appalachian State University as a frequently quoted one among
nongovernmental agencies and other Centers for/of Social Justice across a
variety of US institutions)

Two of the most prominent statements about social justice, each of which
posits its own theory of social justice, are John Rawls' (2003) Justice as
Fairness and David Miller's (2003) Principles of Social Justice. While
neither of these theories can be considered an exhaustive treatment of the
subject matter,  each offers a complex theory of social justice that
illustrates its broad meaning. Both conceptions of social justice are
similar, so there is significant overlap between the main ideas of the
theorists; this is likely due to the fact that they are founded on like
principles and based on previously posited theories from significant
historical political philosophers (Brighouse, 2005).

From the National Association of Social Works Code of Ethics: the Six
Ethical Principles of Social Work (2008 Code revision)
On the NASW homepage (2015)

“social justice. Social justice is the view that everyone deserves equal
economic, political and social rights and opportunities. Social workers aim
to open the doors of access and opportunity for everyone, particularly
those in greatest need.”

Value: Social Justice

Ethical Principle: Social workers challenge social injustice.
Social workers pursue social change, particularly with and on behalf of
vulnerable and oppressed individuals and groups of people. Social workers’
social change efforts are focused primarily on issues of poverty,
unemployment, discrimination, and other forms of social injustice. These
activities seek to promote sensitivity to and knowledge about oppression
and cultural and ethnic diversity. Social workers strive to ensure access
to needed information, services, and resources; equality of opportunity;
and meaningful participation in decision making for all people.

From, National Association of Social Work Home Page 2015

From Dictionary.com
American Psychological Association (APA):
social-justice. (n.d.). Dictionary.com's 21st Century Lexicon. Retrieved
December 14, 2015 from Dictionary.com website
http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/social-justice

social justice

noun
the distribution of advantages and disadvantages within a society

Dictionary.com's 21st Century Lexicon
Copyright © 2003-2014 Dictionary.com, LLC
Cite This Source

The Center for Economic and Social Justice

Defining Social Justice
Social justice encompasses economic justice. Social justice is the virtue
which guides us in creating those organized human interactions we call
institutions. In turn, social institutions, when justly organized, provide
us with access to what is good for the person, both individually and in our
associations with others. Social justice also imposes on each of us a
personal responsibility to work with others to design and continually
perfect our institutions as tools for personal and social development.

Charity: True charity involves giving without any expectation of return.
But it is not a substitute for justice.

From, The Center for Economic and Social Justice Homepage 2015

Economic Justice - Economy
"We have forgotten and are still forgetting that over and above business,
logic and the parameters of the market is the human being; and that
something is men and women in as much as they are human beings by virtue of
their profound dignity: to offer them the possibility of living a dignified
life and of actively participating in the common good. Benedict XVI
reminded us that precisely because it is human, all human activity,
including economic activity, must be ethically structured and governed (cf.
Encyclical Letter Caritas in Veritate. . . , n. 36). We must return to the
centrality of the human being, to a more ethical vision of activities and
of human relationships without the fear of losing something."

- Pope Francis, Address to the Centesimus Annus Pro Pontifice Foundation,
5/25/13

From, The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, Homepage 2015:
Consult this page for the 10 (ten) charcteristics of justice.


“Where justice is denied, where poverty is enforced, where ignorance
prevails, and where any one class is made to feel that society is an
organized conspiracy to oppress, rob and degrade them, neither persons nor
property will be safe.”

Frederick Douglass

“If there is no struggle, there is no progress. Those who profess to favor
freedom, and yet depreciate agitation, are men who want crops without
plowing up the ground. They want rain without thunder and lightning. They
want the ocean without the awful roar of its many waters. This struggle may
be a moral one; or it may be a physical one; or it may be both moral and
physical; but it must be a struggle.”

Frederick Douglass




Where justice is denied, where poverty is enforced, where ignorance
prevails, and where any one class is made to feel that society is an
organized conspiracy to oppress, rob and degrade them, neither persons nor
property will be safe.
                                                          Frederick Douglass

Those who profess to favor freedom, and yet deprecate agitation, are men
who want crops without plowing up the ground.
                                                          Frederick Douglass

“Self-respect cannot be hunted. It cannot be purchased. It is never for
sale. It cannot be fabricated out of public relations. It comes to us when
we are alone, in quiet moments, in quiet places, when we suddenly realize
that, knowing the good, we have done it; knowing the beautiful, we have
served it; knowing the truth, we have spoken it.”  
                                                            Whitney Griswold

“The ultimate tragedy is not the oppression and cruelty by the bad people
but the silence over that by the good people.” 
                                                     Martin Luther King, Jr.

“Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter”
                                                     Martin Luther King, Jr.

“Our prime purpose in this life is to help others. And if you can't help
them, at least don't hurt them.”
                                                                  Dalai Lama

“Be the change you want to see in the world”.

                   Mahatma Gandhi

“The Roots of Violence: Wealth without work, Pleasure without conscience,
Knowledge without character, Commerce without morality, Science without
humanity, Worship without sacrifice, Politics without principle.”

http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes