Joint Administrative/Faculty Task Force on Distance Learning Policies and Standards
Need:
● Current Distance Policies are out of date because of the substantial changes to Distance course
delivery resulting from the response to the Covid crisis.
● The Strategic Plan Goal 2B, Strategy 2, Part B, 2nd Bullet point calls for the creation of “a joint
administrative/faculty task force/governance committee to promote core standards.”
Charge: Update the College’s Distance Learning Policies to reflect:
● Changes since they were issued including, but not limited to, changes made in response to the
Covid crisis such as adoption of novel modalities and widespread ad-hoc use of Blended format;
● Policies it recommends and Faculty Governance adopts that address indicators whose
enhancement is identified in the College’s “Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan”
(pp. 52-3 and appended below) with the creation of such a Task Force.
Proposed Membership: Co-Chairs (Director of Distance Learning, Governance Designee), Chairs of
APPC, CAP, and TLRC or their designees, to the extent not already represented 3 SAS, 1 SOE, 1
SOB, 1 SPS, Dean of A&S, Manager of Instructional Design, Registrar or designee.
Timeline:

Recommendations to Senate: April 9, 2021

Appendix: Indicators in Online Readiness Plan to be addressed by the Task Force:
● 1.1. The institution has a governance structure to enable clear, effective, and comprehensive decision
making related to online education. (Self-rating: 1.3 (of 3))
● 1.5. The organizational structure of the online program supports the institution's mission, values, and
strategic plan. (2)
● 1.9. The institution has a governance structure to enable systematic and continuous improvement related
to the administration of online education. (2)
● 3.1. Guidelines regarding minimum requirements for course development, design, and delivery of online
instruction (such as course syllabus elements, course materials, assessment strategies, faculty feedback)
are followed. (2)
● 3.3. Instructional materials and course syllabi are reviewed periodically to ensure they meet online course
and program learning outcomes. (1)
● 3.5. A process is followed that ensures that permissions (Creative Commons, Copyright, Fair Use, Public
Domain, etc.) are in place for appropriate use of online course materials. (2)
● 3.6. Course assignments and activities are reviewed periodically to ensure they meet online course and
program learning outcomes. (1)
● 3.8. There is consistency in course development for student retention and quality. (1.3)
● 3.9. Course design promotes both faculty and student engagement. (2)
● 4.1. The online course includes a syllabus outlining course objectives, learning outcomes, evaluation
methods, books and supplies, technical and proctoring requirements, and other related course
information, making course requirements transparent. (2)
● 4.3. Expectations for student assignment completion, grade policy, and faculty response are clearly
provided in the course syllabus. (2)
● 5.1. Student-to-student interaction and faculty-to-student interaction are essential characteristics and are
facilitated through a variety of ways. (1.3)
● 5.2. Feedback on student assignments and questions is constructive and provided in a timely manner. (2)
● 7.5. Clear standards are established for faculty engagement and expectations around online teaching (e.g.,
response time, contact information, etc.) (1)
● 9.2. A variety of data (academic and administrative information) are used to regularly and frequently
evaluate program effectiveness and to guide changes toward continual improvement. (1.3)