_

SUNY OLD WESTBURY
Online Institutional Readiness
Implementation Plan
September 17, 2019

Table of Contents
Page

Section

4

Introductory Overview

5

|. Statement of Vision/Mission about Distance Learning
I]. Organizational Structure/Decision-Making/Distance Learning Leadership

Ill. Best Practices
IV. Closing the Gaps: The Indicators and Old Westbury’s Strategic Plan
A. Introduction
10

B. Narrative Overview

12

C. The Indicators

33

V. Stakeholder Engagement/Integration with Campus Planning

34

VI. Benchmarking

38

VII. Online Program Quality Management/Continuous Improvement Process

39

Implementation Planning Team,

41

Appendix A: Indicators with Ratings and Strategic Plan Topics

46

Appendix B: Documented Best Practices

50

Appendix C: The Strategic Plan and the Indicators

70

Appendix D: Implementation Plan Dashboard

Plan Submitter, and Presidential Approval

Introductory Overview
In 2016 the College embarked on an Open SUNY Online Institutional Readiness
Assessment as part of an effort to gain Open SUNY¢+ status for its first online program,
the MS in Accounting. The purpose was to gain the marketing and other support that

SUNY System Administration extends to programs with this favored status. In 2017 the
College committed itself to pursue this status in its request for a SUNY Performance
Improvement Fund (PIF) grant, which was awarded in the amount of $386,000.

This Implementation Plan is the culmination of the Institutional Readiness Assessment
process. In that process, representatives from Open SUNY and top level

administrators, faculty, staff, and students at Old Westbury engaged in a broad and
deep assessment of the College’s Online program.

The assessment process involved

multiple day-long meetings in which the participants developed consensus ratings of the

College’s design, delivery, and support of online instruction in 75 separate indices, and
then devised ways of improving them.
Since this process took place at the same time as the College’s Strategic planning
process and involved many of the same people, the results of the online assessment

were fed directly into Old Westbury’s 2018-23 Strategic Plan. A number of strategies in
the plan were the direct outcome of this process, and it impacted to some extent all 53
places in which the Strategic Plan mentions Distance Learning (which includes Hybrid

and Blended classes mixing classroom and online activities as well as fully Online
ones).

This Implementation Plan is based on a template provided by Open SUNY, but it has
been adapted to the particular circumstances in which Old Westbury’s assessment was
conducted by systematically connecting it to the College’s Strategic Plan. More
specifically, this document includes:
a Statement of Vision/Mission that connects the Distance Learning program to
the College’s updated Mission Statement in the current Strategic Plan (Part 1);
the Organizational Structure of the Distance Learning program showing how it is
administered, including enhancements in place and in progress that were
suggested by the assessment process and incorporated into the Strategic Plan
(Part Il);
a discussion of how we plan to enhance our performance in regard to each of the
65 indices that we rated ourselves less than exemplary, including in each case

where in the Strategic Plan the issues raised by the index are addressed, in
order to facilitate quick reference from the specific needs of the Distance
program to the overall needs and plans of the College as a whole (Part IV);

a complementary discussion of where and how Distance learning is addressed in
the Strategic plan, including how each instance in which Distance learning is

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
discussed relates to specific indices in the Institutional Readiness Assessment, in
order to facilitate quick reference from the general issues and strategies laid out
in the Strategic plan to specific aspects of the Distance program needing
improvement (Appendix C);
an Implementation Plan Dashboard, an Excel spreadsheet listing all the indices
sorted by urgency and including our initial rating, Enhancements needed and/or
done, and its current rating (Appendix D).
A live copy of the Dashboard will be maintained online along with a copy of this
Implementation Plan so that they can be easily consulted by members of the College
community who are engaged in strategic planning and assessment as well as those
involved in developing and administering the Distance program. The goal is to make
this plan an integral part of the assessment and planning process of the SPAAR
committee put in place by the Strategic Plan.
In addition to these unique items, this document includes a discussion of how this plan

will be disseminated to the College community (Part V), a listing of metrics that will be
tracked to measure the scope and development of the Distance program (Part VI), a

discussion of how the Distance program’s quality will be monitored for continuous
improvement (Part VII); a listing of the items in the Institutional Readiness assessment
rubric with our initial ratings (Appendix A), and full documentation of our Best Practices

(Appendix B). These elements will further help both the Distance Program and the
College’s Strategic Planning bodies use the report to assess and advance the
enhancement of our Distance Program.

A draft of this plan was completed in November of 2018 and sent to Open SUNY for
review and feedback, in keeping with the standard practices of the Institutional
Readiness Assessment process. A copy with suggested enhancements was received
in July, 2019. Some of these were incorporated as revisions where appropriate, and
many others are embedded in the text itself as detailed suggestions to be considered by
the responsible personnel and bodies at Old Westbury as they enhance our Distance
program in accordance with the College’s Strategic Plan.

|. Statement of Vision/Mission about Distance

Learning

SUNY Old Westbury is a diverse public liberal arts college that is growing as a regional
academic leader. The goal of the College’s Distance Learning Program is to promote
the seamless integration of online modes of content delivery and instructional

interaction into the College’s academic offerings to expand access to them while
enhancing their value. Formats for such integration include fully online classes and

programs, hybrid and blended classes and programs in which some but not all
classroom time is offset by online instruction, and the use of online resources to
supplement classroom activities and out-of-class assignments in otherwise traditional
classes. The purpose is to expand the reach and enrich the means by which the
College pursues its mission of fostering “academic excellence” and students’

“commitment to building a more just and sustainable world.”
ll. Organizational Structure/Decision-Making/DL

Leadership

Old Westbury Distance Learning Organizational Chart
Facul

YY

Governance

eeeneaemn

Provost

leeeeereceneceee "|

CFO
7

Distance

Lestnine

Deans and

Governance
Committee

Chaialrs
TO

nee

.

Director of
pm ae ee 9

Distance
——
Learning

ar

clo

ae

a at oe ee
ae

on
we

eae”

Faculty

r

ete

nt
;

nstructiona

Design Staff

URS

Key to Organizational Chart:
Reporting relationships are indicated by solid lines; dashed lines indicate functional
relationships.
Bold Underlined position is the individual responsible for coordination of Distance
Learning across the institution.

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Provost (and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs): Chief Academic Officer,

oversees Schools and Departments and the Director of Distance Learning, and sets

administrative policies governing Distance Learning.

The Provost is responsible for

the overall administration and quality of the educational program of the College.

Director of Distance Learning: Oversees training of faculty new to Distance formats;
runs the stipend program supporting development of New Distance courses; assists
programs interested in creating Online programs; represents Distance Learning point

of view in strategic and operational planning processes. The Director of Distance
Learning is responsible for coordination of Distance Education activities across the
institution.

The Director of Distance Learning assists the Provost, Deans, Chairs, and

Faculty in discharging their responsibility to ensure the quality of academic offerings in

the implementation of Distance technologies and pedagogies.

Distance Learning Governance Committee (Planned): Will act as the legislature for
Distance Learning, setting standards and balancing considerations of faculty

prerogative, disciplinary needs, and student interests in the design and teaching of

courses and programs, and addressing specific policy issues raised by various

Indicators and Strategic Plan initiatives

Deans and Chairs: Schedule and staff courses, including the delivery mode
(traditional, hybrid/blended, or online).

Their schools and departments are responsible

for the design, delivery, and quality of their offerings.

CFO (Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President for Business Affairs):
Oversees Business Affairs Division, including Information Technology Services.

CIO (Chief Information Officer): Oversees Information Technology Services,
including Instructional Design and Technology.
Instructional Design Staff: Trains all faculty new to a Distance Learning modality,
supervises the development of their first course in the modality, and checks its

implementation of Distance technology and pedagogy both before it runs and after the
first month. Supports all faculty with Distance pedagogical and technology issues
individually and through workshops, and students through orientation materials and
workshops, assistance with ongoing classes, and community-building activities and

resources.

The Faculty: Individual faculty members initiate new Distance courses, and design
and run them with the support of the Instructional Designer.

Each faculty member is

responsible for the creation, delivery, and quality of the courses they teach.

In

addition, the faculty are responsible as departments for the quality of their offerings on
an ongoing basis as well as through periodic (Five Year) departmental reviews
overseen by Faculty Governance.

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Faculty Governance: Faculty Governance is rooted in the collective authority of the
faculty over the design and delivery of curriculum. The faculty convene in Full Faculty
meetings three times a year. When the full faculty is not convened, authority is
delegated by the faculty to the Faculty Senate, which consists primarily of

departmental representatives, meets bi-weekly during the Academic Year, legislates

on behalf of the faculty, and oversees a set of standing and ad hoc faculty committees.

The Faculty Senate Executive Committee chairs Senate meetings and represents the

faculty when the Senate is not is session.

The Faculty are collectively responsible for

the design, delivery, and quality of the curriculum.
ill. Best Practices

This section discusses for each indicator in the Institutional Readiness Assessment

(IRA) that was rated Exemplary (3) how the College will ensure sustainability and
continuous improvement. In most cases, this includes identifying where in the College’s
2018-23 Strategic Plan (available at https:/Awww.oldwestbury.edu/about/president/20182023-strategic-plan), which was developed concurrently with the Institutional Readiness

Assessment and was issued by the College's president on April 12, 2018, a
commitment to the goals of that indicator is made.

To do this, each indicator or set of

indicators below refers to Appendix C, which groups the references to Distance
Learning issues in the Strategic Plan into 20 Topics. The references are to one or more
Strategic Plan Topics (SPT) by number (1-20) (e.g. SPT4, SPT18).
1.3. Institutional Support, Institutional Policy on Intellectual Property: The
College’s Strategic Plan for 2018 — 23 calls for the creation of a Joint

Administrative/Faculty Distance Learning Governance Committee to promote
core standards (SPT2). One responsibility of this body will be to make sure that
the policy is up-do-date.
2.3, 2.4, and 2.7. Technology Support, A Centralized System Provides for Building
and Maintaining Online Educational Infrastructure (2.3); Online Course
Delivery is considered and supported as Mission Critical (2.4); and

Systems are Administered in compliance with established data
management practices (2.7): Our LMS, Blackboard, is hosted by ITEC in the
ITEC Data center.

It is managed

and supported as a Mission Critical application.

Blackboard Collaborate has been added to provide virtual office hours,

collaboration, video and teleconference functionality. Panopto, the video
platform for universities, has been added to manage, record, live stream, archive,
share videos and digital assets created by faculty and students. Panopto
provides lecture capturing and flipped classroom capability to Old Westbury

Faculty for online and in class modes of delivery.

The importance of maintaining

and staffing essential facilities including online technology resources is
incorporated in Strategic Plan (SPT 18).

SUNY

Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

3.12. Course Development and Instructional Design, Curriculum Development is a
Core Responsibility for Faculty: Old Westbury is a Comprehensive College, so
the faculty's primary responsibility is instruction. Shared governance, which is

founded on the faculty’s expertise in their fields, insures that the faculty zealously
guards its primacy in the development as well as delivery of the curriculum. The
strategic plan calls for this to be institutionalized in the structure of Distance
Learning through the creation of a Joint Administrative/Faculty Distance Learning
Governance Committee to promote core standards and the expansion of
workshops on pedagogy, explicitly including online and hybrid as well as
traditional formats, which will be one of the responsibilities of the additional
Instructional Design Staff the plan calls for (SPT2, SPT5, and SPT10).

4.2 and 4.4. Course Structure, Course Structure Ensures Access to Library
Learning Resources (4.2), and Access to Technical Support Clearly

provided to Students in Course (4.4): Information on and links to Library
Learning Resources and Technical Support are maintained in the Student Center

tab which is accessible from within all courses. The information and links will be
updated and expanded as appropriate by the Instructional Design Staff in

coordination with the Library Staff.

The expansion of the Instructional Design

staff will strengthen our ability to maintain and expand the links to technical
support (SPT 5), while the Strategic Plan calls for online library access to be

strengthened generally (Strategic Plan Implementation Plan Goal 1, Objective A,

Strategy 7, p. 4). Furthermore, the College has committed to these accesses in
both our proposal for our first online degree, an online track for our MS in
Accounting, and also in a Performance Improvement Fund grant the College
received from SUNY to support it.
7.1 and 7.2. Faculty Support, Technical assistance is provided for both online
course development and delivery (7.1), and Training and Support are
Provided for Online Course Development and Teaching (7.2): Expansion of
the Instructional Design staff is stipulated in the College’s Strategic Plan (SPT5)
and is supported by the SUNY System via a Performance Improvement Fund
grant. This will insure the ability to continue and develop Instructional Design
and Technology support.

8.9. Student Support, Students are Provided Non-Instructional Support Services:
The College’s commitment to expand recruitment and support of post-traditional
face-to-face students as well as online students will insure continuance of its
development on web-based delivery of administrative support services (SPT14).

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

IV. Closing the Gaps: The Indicators and the Strategic Plan
A. Introduction

As mentioned in the previous section, this Institutional Readiness Assessment was
conducted at the same time as the College’s Institutional Strategic Planning process. Its
results fed directly into that process, and they are addressed in multiple places in the

Strategic Plan (more specifically, in the Strategic Plan’s separate, more detailed

Implementation Plan). Therefore, in this section the analysis and summary of the
actions needed to close the gaps in the Indicators where the College scored less than a
3 has been composed to refer to the College’s Strategic Plan’s Implementation Plan

(hereinafter referred to simply as the “Strategic Plan” or “Plan”). Because of the
intricacy of the relationship between the IRA and the Strategic Plan, with many IRA

Indicators supported at multiple points within the Plan and numerous individual points in
the Plan addressing multiple IRA Indicators, this section is complemented by Appendix
C, and the two are designed to work together, as explained below.
In the current section, the Institutional Readiness Assessment Indicators rated less than

3 are listed in order, with a discussion of each describing how it will be addressed in the

context of the Strategic Plan. It provides an overview of plans for improvement in a way
that can be read through, or easily consulted directly or by reference from Appendix C.
Appendix C is referenced in turn in the discussion of each Indicator since it shows
where the Indicator fits into the Strategic Plan and points to the specific places in the
Strategic Plan that discuss the timing of and responsibility for addressing the issues the
Indicator involves.
Appendix C is organized according to topics in the Strategic Plan’s Implementation Plan

related to Distance Learning, with the specific Indicators in the Institutional Readiness

Assessment they address listed below them. It is designed to facilitate the planning and
assessment of the implementation of the Strategic Plan by providing guidance to the
specific needs that provisions of the Plan were created to address. Planners seeking to
implement various elements of the Plan can reference from Appendix C to the current
section for the Indicators that identified the issues these elements of the Plan were

designed to address, along with a discussion of how each issue needs to be addressed.
Similarly, assessors can use Appendix C to guide their efforts to assess the progress of

the implementation of the Strategic Plan. Since ongoing institutional assessment is a
major priority of the Strategic Plan, Appendix C should be of particular use to the
Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis and Review (SPAAR) committee, which the
College is establishing to oversee the implementation and assessment of the Strategic
Plan.

Note that in addition to section C below and Appendix C, Appendix A contains a list of
the IRA Indicators in table form sorted by consensus rating. The Indicators rated 0 are

listed first, 1’s are listed next, 2’s are listed after that, and 3’s are listed at the end. The
purpose of this listing is to highlight the Indicators where the need for improvement is

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

presumptively strongest. Reference is given to the Strategic Plan Topics (SPTs) that
address the needs identified by each Indicator to facilitate easy reference from

Appendix A to Appendix C, while the Indicator ID numbers facilitate easy reference into
the detailed discussions of the indicator in section C, below.
B. Narrative Overview

While this plan’s structure of cross-references between the numerical listing of
Indicators in this section and Section III, above; the Strategic Plan Topics in Appendix
C; and the “order of urgency” ratings in Appendix A reflects the unusual circumstances
of the close connection between the Institutional Readiness Assessment and the
College’s Strategic Planning process, and is designed to maximize this document's
utility for both those working on enhancing the College’s Distance Learning program
and those working on implementing and overseeing the Strategic Plan, before laying out

the plans for each individual Indicator in turn, an overview of the temporal and functional
workings of this relationship will be outlined here.
Appendix C groups the 20 Strategic Plan Topics into 5 major themes:
e

Enhancing Administration and Governance of the Distance Program,

e

Increasing Support of the Online Program,

e

Promoting Faculty Development,

e

Enhancing the Student Online Experience, and

e

Maintaining and Upgrading the Technological Infrastructure.

Enhancing Administration and Governance of the Distance Program includes 4 SPTs:

regularizing the executive leadership of Distance Learning by hiring a staff or appointing

a faculty director, creating a joint administrative/faculty governance committee to

promote core standards, strengthening departmental oversight of Distance offerings via
training for chairs and incorporation of Distance issues into five year reviews, and
assessing progress toward Strategic Goals. Implementation of these SPTs will directly
address a number of specific Indicators, and are crucial for leading enhancements of
many others.
As detailed in the discussion of SPT1, the staffing of the Director of Distance Learning

(DDL) position became one of too-many responsibilities for the incumbent in the past

few years, so regularizing this position became a stated goal of the Strategic Plan. The
DDL is needed to play a leading role in many initiatives, as is mentioned in many of the
specific discussions below and in Appendix C. This person will also track
enhancements to the various indicators using an electronic version of the table
contained in Appendix D, below; will work with the SPAAR committee to assess
progress in the Distance portions of the Strategic Plan and plan further steps; and will

10

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

collaborate with the Instructional Design and Instructional Technology staffs to
implement enhancements in their areas.

One of the first and most important things the Director of Distance Learning needs to do

is work with Faculty Governance and the College Administration to organize the
Distance Learning Governance Committee. It will act as the legislature for Distance
Learning, setting standards and balancing considerations of faculty prerogative,
disciplinary needs, and student interests in the design and teaching of courses and
programs, and addressing specific policy issues raised by various Indicators and

Strategic Plan initiatives.

The Director of Distance Learning and the Governance Committee will jointly work with

Departments and Faculty Governance to incorporate Distance issues more explicitly in

the routine of departmental operations and periodic reviews.

The DDL will work with the

Instructional Design staff to provide training to program chairs, deans, and directors,
and with the Governance to explicitly incorporate Distance issues raised by the
Indicators into departmental and program

review structures.

The Strategic Plan calls for the SPAAR committee to oversee annual assessments of
the College’s progress toward implementation of its Strategic Plan.

This provides a

natural structure for the College’s progress toward implementation of the enhancements

indicated by the Institutional Readiness Assessment to be monitored, as an integral part
of the larger process. The Plan also calls for the specific assessment of Distance

Learning as an academic program, which will be overseen by the Director of Distance
Learning in conjunction with the Director of Assessment.

The theme Increase Support of the Distance Program includes 5 topics: hiring at least

one additional Instructional Designer, increasing awareness of existing and future

technology resources, expanding distance offerings, “execut[ing] the implementation” of

the “Open SUNY Institutional Readiness Assessment,” and ensuring that all online
materials are accessible. Like regularizing the executive leadership of the Distance
Program, hiring additional Instructional Design staff will address a number of Indicators

directly and enable us to address many others as well, as is detailed below and in
Appendix C. Increasing awareness of technology resources and expanding distance
offerings address a number of specific Indicators, while executing the implementation of

the IRA provides a general provision to address the few needs identified by the
Indicators that are not directly addressed elsewhere in the Strategic Plan.

Promoting Faculty Development includes 2 topics, supporting faculty professional
development and providing opportunities for departments and individual faculty to gain
access to emerging technologies. These address a number of specific Indicators, and
increasing our Instructional Design staff will particularly help us implement them.

Enhancing the Student Online Experience includes 4 topics: promoting digital literacy,
enhancing online student support, enhancing online administrative functions, and

promoting online community.

Of these, promoting digital literacy receives strong

11

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
emphasis in the Strategic Plan, and will address a variety of needs identified by the IRA.
It and enhancing student support will receive particular help from the enlargement of the
Instructional Design staff. Enhancing online administrative functions is part of a broader
push to continue modernizing the College’s administrative functionality to better serve
traditional as well as online students. Promoting online community is the area that
received the least attention in the Strategic planning process, but there are several
items in it that will promote this dimension of the students’ College experience, and the
general provision under Increasing Support of the Distance Program can be invoked as
appropriate.
Finally, Maintaining and Upgrading the Technological
creating a hybrid production studio, enhancing online
and staffing essential facilities, developing an annual
Instructional Technology, and continuously assessing

Infrastructure includes 5 topics:
identity verification, maintaining
survey to assess use of available
non-academic technology needs.

The first and third address fairly specific needs and a handful of Indicators, and will be

primarily the responsibility of the Information Technology department. The second was
adopted in response to a call by the State Education Department reviewer of our Online
MS in Accounting program: even though we conform to Federal and Middle States
standards, we agreed to explore additional measures for the Online MS in Accounting,
and will use the results to enhance our identity verification measures more generally.

The fourth with be a joint effort between the Director of Distance Learning and the IT
department, while the fifth will be primarily the responsibility of IT.

As the above discussion indicates, the topics in the first and
ways lay the groundwork for the enhancements called for in
used to assess the relative urgency of the various tasks that
and the details of how these will be conducted are contained
discussion of the Indicators, and in Appendix C.

second themes will in many
the rest. Appendix A will be
need to be undertaken,
below, in the sequential

C. The Indicators

This section lists all Institutional Readiness Assessment Indicators rated less than 3 in
order, with a discussion of each describing how it will be addressed in the context of the
Strategic Plan. Note that in the items below, “(SPT#)” refers to a Strategic Plan Topic
enumerated in Appendix C.
Note also that suggestions made by the Open SUNY reviewer of a draft of this
document included at the end of the discussion of some items so they can be
considered as work is undertaken to enhance them. These are formatted as follows:
Open SUNY Suggestions:
General Comment:

e

e
e

Suggestion #1

Suggestion #2
Etc.

12

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
1. Institutional Support

1.1. The institution has a governance structure to enable clear, effective, and

comprehensive decision making related to online education. (Current Rating: 1)
Old Westbury’s strategic plan commits the College to enhance the institution’s
administrative and governance structures to strengthen its decision making related to

online education in 4 ways. First, it will regularize executive leadership of its Distance
program. (SPT1) Second, it will create a joint administrative/faculty task

force/governance committee to promote core standards. (SPT2)

Third, it will strengthen

departmental oversight via training for chairs and incorporation of Distance issues into
five year reviews, and fourth it will include the Distance program in its ongoing and
cumulative assessments of the College’s progress toward its strategic goals. (SPT3 and

SPT4)

1.2. The institution has policy and guidelines that confirm a student who registers
in an online course or program is the same student who participates in and
completes the course or program and receives academic credit. This is done by
verifying the identity of a student by using methods such as (a) a secure login
and pass code, (b) proctored examinations, or (c) other technologies and
practices that are effective in verifying student identity. (Current Rating: 1)

While the College currently meets federal, state, and Middle States standards of identity
verification via a secure login and pass code, the Strategic Plan commits the College
both to investigate means to enhance student identity verification in specific online
courses and to balance “openness, access, agility’ with “security of data and systems”

more generally. The College is currently piloting Proctor U’s remote identity verification
and proctoring service to determine if this or a similar system is a feasible upgrade that
can be adopted systematically. (SPT17)

Open SUNY Suggestion:
e Monitor System-wide initiatives and efforts to assist campuses with this.
1.4. The institution has defined the strategic value of online learning to its
enterprise and to stakeholders. (Current Rating: 1)

The Strategic Plan explicitly identifies assessment of the Distance program as a part of
its ongoing and cumulative assessments of the College’s progress toward its strategic
goals. (SPT4) Furthermore, the Plan calls for communications efforts to increase
awareness of existing and future technology resources in general and in terms of

instructional technology in particular, for consideration of expansion of Distance

offerings to meet strategic goals, and, more generally, to “execute the implementation of
SUNY Old Westbury’s Open SUNY Institutional Readiness Assessment. (SPT6, SPT7,

SPT8)

1.5. The organizational structure of the online program supports the institution's
mission, values, and strategic plan. (Current Rating: 2)

13

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

The enhancements to the Distance program’s administrative and governance structures
and assessment will increase the distance’s program alignment with institutional
mission and values and its strategic plan. (SPT1, SPT2, SPT3, SPT4)
1.6. The online program's strategic plan is reviewed for its continuing relevance,

and periodically improved and updated. (Current Rating: 1)

The inclusion of the Distance program in the College’s ongoing and cumulative strategic
assessment and planning will necessitate regular review and revision of its strategic

direction. (SPT4)

1.7. The institution has a process for planning and resource allocation for the

online program, including financial resources, in accordance with strategic
planning. (Current rating: 1)

The inclusion of the Distance program in the College’s ongoing and cumulative strategic
assessment and planning will involve it in the resource allocations in accordance with
strategic planning. (SPT4) Furthermore, the Strategic Plan makes an explicit
commitment to consider expanding online classes and programs to promote strategic
goals involving smoothing students’ pathway to completion and finding new sources of
revenue (SPT 7), and makes provision for regular assessment of both instructional and
administrative technology needs (SPT19 and SPT20).

1.8. The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation, including
financial resources, in order to effectively support the mission of online
education. (Current rating: 2)

In addition to funding the LMS, Open SUNY membership (including Helpdesk support),

and Instructional Designer, the institution gives a stipend of $2000 to faculty who train
for and create new online classes, and $1000 to faculty who train for and create new

hybrid classes. The Strategic Plan commits the College to additionally hire a second
Instructional Designer (SPT5), expand its distance offerings (SPT7), insure that all
online materials are accessible (SPT9), promote students’ digital literacy (SPT12),
maintain its contracted online tutoring service (SPT13), enhance online access to

administrative functions (SPT14), and enhance its online identity verification capabilities
(SPT17).
1.9 The institution has a governance structure to enable systematic and

continuous improvement related to the administration of online education.
(Current Rating: 1)

The Strategic Plan’s combination of institutionalized assessment (SPT4), strengthened
executive administration (SPT1), creation of a joint governance/administration
governing body to create new policies (SPT2), and more clearly delineated

14

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
departmental responsibilities (SPT3) will promote systematic and continuous
improvement in the administration of online education.
Open SUNY Suggestion:
e
Consider using this Institutional Readiness process again to address this standard.
2. Technology Support

2.1 A documented technology plan that includes electronic security measures
(e.g., password protection, encryption, secure online or proctored exams, etc.) is
in place and operational to ensure quality, in accordance with established
standards and regulatory requirements. (Current Rating 2)
The Strategic plan includes provisions for enhanced administrative technologies for
students, with the specific inclusion of Online students (SPT14), identity verification and

the balancing of openness and security (SPT17), which will be monitored through the
assessment of and planning for progress in implementing the Strategic Plan (SPT4).
2.2 The technology delivery systems are highly reliable and operable with

measurable standards being utilized such as system downtime tracking or task
benchmarking. (Current Rating: 2)

The ClO will work with the ITEC CIO to undertake efforts to enhance these aspects of

the College’s technology delivery systems under the Strategic Plan’s mandate to
address the results of this Institutional Readiness Assessment (SPT 8) as appropriate in

light of the institution’s overall technology needs and resources.

2.5. The institution has established a contingency plan for the continuance of

data centers and support services in the event of prolonged service disruption.
(Current Rating: 2)
The ClO will work with the ITEC CIO to undertake efforts to enhance these plans under

the Strategic Plan’s mandate to address the results of this Institutional Readiness

Assessment (SPT 8) as appropriate in light of the institution’s overall technology needs
and resources.
2.6. Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and use of new
technologies and skills. (Current Rating: 2)
Expanding support in this area for faculty and students will be one of the important
responsibilities of the new Instructional Designer. (SPT5) The Strategic Plan explicitly
calls for faculty, student, and staff's awareness and use of existing and future
technology resources, both instructional and more general, be increased. (SPT6,

SPT11, SPT12, SPT13, SPT16)

Open SUNY Suggestions:
Specify what the Instructional Designer will do:

15

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
e
«
e
e
3. Course

What the process or mechanism is by which the technology and skills will be
identified for development.
How the Instructional Designer will decide what to do.
When it will be initiated.
By when it will be completed.
Development and Instructional Desiqn

Open SUNY Suggestion:
e

Don't forget that you can leverage Open SUNY Online Teaching resources in this
category, and as a way to bridge the gap till you hire your own staff. See the open

SUNY SLA for this.

3.1. Guidelines regarding minimum requirements for course development, design,
and delivery of online instruction (such as course syllabus elements, course
materials, assessment strategies, faculty feedback) are followed. (Current Rating:

2)

Creation of such guidelines through a process faculty will accept as valid is a prime
motivation for creating the joint faculty/administrative governance body (SPT2).

Responsibility for seeing that they are followed, like responsibility for the instructional
program overall, will rest with the academic programs, whose ability to do will be

enhanced through training (SPT3) and assessment (SPT4). Creation of the guidelines
will be informed by input from the augmented Instructional Design staff (SPT 5).
Open SUNY Suggestions:
The DL governance committee should collaboratively develop guidelines for course
development, design, and teaching that could include:
e Anonline course development and delivery agreement document to be signed by all
e
e
e

e

online faculty.
A Template for all new online courses to ensure that all important documents are

included.

Policies and procedures that ensure compliance with the best practices in online
education.
Endorse the requirement that the Open SUNY Course Quality Review (OSCQR)
rubric be used for all new and existing online courses.

During the training process, ensure that faculty are aware of and have access to

exemplary courses at our institution and throughout SUNY.

3.2. Course embedded technology actively supports the achievement of learning
outcomes and delivery of course content and superfluous use of technology is
minimized. (Current Rating: 2)
As with other aspects of the instructional program, the faculty have responsibility for the

quality of its offerings through their programs (SPT3), informed by the results of
assessment (SPT4) and the input of Instructional Designers (SPT5), and aided by the
latter's direct consultations and faculty development workshops (SPT 10).

16

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
Open SUNY Suggestions:

e
e
e
e

Investigate technologies that are being used by faculty.

Determine the extent to which technologies support learning outcomes.
Develop steps for evaluating new technologies.
Develop training program for any new technologies.

3.3 Instructional materials and course syllabi are reviewed periodically to ensure
they meet online course and program learning outcomes. (Current Rating: 1)
Under the Strategic Plan, academic programs will be given additional guidance in order
to discharge their responsibility in this area on an ongoing basis and in their Five Year

Reviews (SPT3).

If new policies are needed to promote this, they will be enacted by the

joint faculty/administrative governance committee (SPT2).
Open SUNY Suggestion:
e Review every three years on a

same year.

rolling basis, so not all are happening in the

3.4. A course development process is followed that ensures courses are

designed so that students develop the necessary knowledge and skills to meet

measurable learning outcomes at the course and program level. (Current Rating:

1)

Under the Strategic Plan, academic programs will be given additional guidance in order
to discharge their responsibility in this area on an ongoing basis and in their Five Year

Reviews. (SPT3) The Instructional Design staff will provide technical support in
designing and implementing the development process (SPT5).
Open SUNY Suggestions:

ee

68

@

e

Reference OSCQR.
Adopt the “Interested in Teaching Online” resources for new online faculty.

Develop a course creation process that all are required to follow.
Demonstrate that all online course outcomes meet program learning outcomes.
Create necessary policies and procedures to support this effort.

3.5. A process is followed that ensures that permissions (Creative Commons,
Copyright, Fair Use, Public Domain, etc.) are in place for appropriate use of online
course materials. (2)
The College’s Distance policies require that faculty secure the requisite permissions for

materials they use, and the Library has prepared materials to help faculty in this.

Enforcement of this policy will be part of programs’ enhanced oversight (SPT3), and
systematic training in it a responsibility of the expanded Instructional Design staff

(SPTS5).

Open SUNY Suggestions:

17

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
e

Leverage Open SUNY, SUNY Center for Professional Development, and Online

e

Develop guides, tools, and training to support online faculty.

e

Learning Consortium online teaching resources.

Perform intermittent checks to see that policy is being adhered to.

3.6. Course assignments and activities are reviewed periodically to ensure they
meet online course and program learning outcomes. (Current Rating: 1)

Under the Strategic Plan, academic programs will be given additional guidance in order
to discharge their responsibility in this area on an ongoing basis and in their Five Year

Reviews. (SPT3) If new policies are needed to promote this, they will be enacted by the

joint faculty/administrative governance committee. (SPT2).
Open SUNY Suggestion:

e

Use the OSCQR rubric and process.

3.7. Student-centered instruction is considered during the course-development
process. (Current Rating: 2)

This issue is raised in the mandatory training faculty do before teaching both their first
online and their first hybrid course, but it will be reinforced in workshops made possible
by our increased Instructional Design staff (SPT5, SPT10).

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
There may be an opportunity to leverage the Open SUNY online faculty mentoring
program to expand potential mentors for this beyond those on your campus.

e
e

e

Enhance training offerings to focus on student-centered instruction.
Investigate having faculty mentors for new online instructors, including using the

system-wide network of mentors to offer our online faculty the opportunity to observe
and be mentored by experienced online faculty.
Target both new and experienced online faculty with professional development

offerings from professional learning options targeting student centered instruction by
Open SUNY and/or the Online Learning Consortium.

3.8. There is consistency in course development for student retention and quality.
(Current Rating: 1)

This will be promoted via faculty development workshops (SPT10) conducted by the
increased Instructional Design staff (SPT5). Currently only the courses in our new
Online Masters in Accounting program are developed with this requirement. If new
policies are needed to promote this more generally, they will be enacted by the joint
faculty/administrative governance committee. (SPT2)
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

e
e
e

Emphasize use of the OSCQR

standards for consistency and accessibility.

Review learning objectives for courses.
Create a peer review process before course is offered.
Develop reporting based on measurable goals.

18

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
e

Implement an early alert system like Starfish, or specifically target a small set of at

risk behaviors at the start of the semester with specific interventions.

3.9. Course design promotes both faculty and student engagement. (Current

Rating: 2)

This will be promoted via faculty development workshops (SPT10) conducted by the
increased Instructional Design staff (SPT5). Currently only the courses in our new

Online Masters in Accounting program are developed with this requirement. If new
policies are needed to promote this more generally, they will be enacted by the joint
faculty/administrative governance committee. (SPTZ2)
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

Emphasize this in the training program for faculty.

e

Use feedback from students to improve course design.

e

Follow the OSCQR rubric.

3.10. A process is followed for evaluating the effectiveness of current and

emerging technologies to support the achievement of learning outcomes and
delivery of course content. (Current Rating: 1)

This sort of evaluation will be a responsibility of the additional Instructional Design staff

(SPT5), and will also be conducted via the annual survey to assess use of Instructional
Technology in all course delivery modes (SPT19)

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Develop an annual small grant program offered to faculty to pilot test emerging tech.

They will be required to report on their pilot/share findings, and make

recommendations for broader institutional use/implementation. They may be required

e
e
e
e

e

to assist in training faculty/students in new tech if there is broader institutional
adoption of specific tech.
Create a process and committee to review recommendations for institutional

adoption.

Present emerging/instructional technology to faculty in conjunction with the IT
department.
Work with the professional development office to ensure that our offerings are widely

disseminated.

Where emerging technologies are used, survey students to understand their feelings

towards the new technology.
Investigate how other institutions evaluate the effectiveness of emerging technology.

3.11. Usability tests are conducted and applied, and recommendations

based on

Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAGs) are incorporated. (Current
Rating: 1)

The Strategic Plan explicitly calls for all online materials to be ADA compliant. (SPT 9)
Testing will be the responsibility of the second Instructional Designer (SPT5) and results
and recommendations will be conveyed to the faculty via training and workshops

19

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional] Readiness Implementation Plan
(SPT10) We have
automatically scan
use. We anticipate
will raise our score

recently purchased Blackboard Ally, which will enable us to
online course materials for accessibility, and are currently piloting its
that implementation of this technology and the techniques to use it
here to a 2.

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

e
e

e
e
4. Course

Use OSCQR to ensure that all new online courses are reviewed for accessibility,
including that in-course videos have a transcript and captioning.

Begin an initiative to review all existing courses for accessibility using OSCQR,

including that in-course videos have a transcript and captioning.
Online administrators, faculty, and staff should seek out professional development

opportunities in order to understand accessibility on a deeper level.
Have all Instructional Designers get training in accessibility and UDL by OLC.
Work closely with the disabilities office to ensure online courses meet WCAGs.
Structure

4.1. The online course includes a syllabus outlining course objectives, learning
outcomes, evaluation methods, books and supplies, technical and proctoring
requirements, and other related course information, making course requirements

transparent. (Current Rating: 2)

Faculty are already trained to include this information, but it can be reinforced by the

augmented Instructional Design staff (SPT5) via faculty development workshops
(SPT10). If new policies are needed to promote this more generally, they will be

enacted by the joint faculty/administrative governance committee. (SPT2)

4.3. Expectations for student assignment completion, grade policy, and faculty
response are clearly provided in the course syllabus. (Current Rating: 2)

Faculty are already trained to include this information, but it can be reinforced by the
augmented Instructional Design staff (SPT5) via faculty development workshops
(SPT10). If new policies are needed to promote this more generally, they will be
enacted by the joint faculty/administrative governance committee. (SPT2)
Open SUNY Suggestion:
e

Develop a course syllabus template for use in all online classes that provides explicit
information for the online course on assignment completion, grade policy, and faculty
response and other expectations.

4.5. Instructional materials are accessible to the student, easy to use, and may be
accessed by multiple operating systems and applications. (Current Rating: 2)
Our Blackboard LMS takes care of the operating system issue, and our faculty are
already trained to make their material accessible (SPT9) and easy to use, but these can
be reinforced by the augmented Instructional Design staff (SPT5) via faculty
development workshops (SPT10). (Note that at the moment Safari causes intermittent

20

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
problems with student submissions via Blackboard; but Blackboard is aware of the
problem and working to eliminate it.)
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

e
e
e

Revise the online syllabus to include links to needed downloads.

Review with your tech team and Help Desk.
Check out the Open SUNY Help Desk knowledge base resources.

Leverage Open SUNY/Online Learning Consortium professional development for

new and existing faculty on some Universal Design for Learning (UDL) and
accessibility basics like making pdfs accessible, alt tagging images, captioning

videos, reviewing, updating, and selecting resources that are already compliant.

4.6. Instructional materials are easily accessed by students with disabilities via
alternative instructional strategies and/or referral to special institutional
resources. (Current Rating: 1)

Faculty are already trained to make their material accessible (SPT9), our Office of

Services for Students with Disabilities is experienced with giving support to students

who need it and has an Accommodations Coordinator whose responsibilities include
working with individual students, and we have recently purchased Blackboard Ally to
automate inspection of online course materials for accessibility and are piloting its use.

These will be reinforced by the augmented Instructional Design staff (SPT5) via faculty
development workshops (SPT10).

Open SUNY Suggestions:
Work with the Campus Disability Services to
e
Make sure student needs are being met.
*
Review and document accommodations procedures.

e

Make sure the information is posted in each course syllabus, link in each online
course, and link on the online learning landing page for all online students.

4.7. Opportunities/tools are provided to encourage student-student collaboration

(i.e., web conferencing, instant messaging, etc.) if appropriate. (Current Rating: 2)

The augmented Instructional Design staff (SPT5) will provide workshops (SPT10) to
help faculty incorporate these features into courses as appropriate. Faculty will be
encouraged to become familiar with the technologies these involve (SPT6), as they will
promote student digital literacy generally (SPT12) as well as engagement with the
specific material.

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e Instructional Design staff will be trained in UDL principles.
e Faculty training, best practices, and models in Student to student collaboration using
synchronous and asynchronous tools will be developed and delivered.

4.8. Rules and standards for appropriate online student behavior are provided
within the course. (Current Rating: 2)

21

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Faculty are already trained to include this information, but it can be reinforced by the

augmented

Instructional Design staff (SPT5) via faculty development workshops

(SPT10), as they will promote student digital literacy generally (SPT12) as well as
engagement with the specific material.
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Develop a "Netiquette" policy to include in the Student Code of Conduct.
e
Incorporate "Netiquette" policy into the online course outline template and syllabus
template used by online faculty.

5. Teaching

and

Learning

5.1. Student-to-student interaction and faculty-to-student interaction are essential
characteristics and are facilitated through a variety of ways. (Current Rating: 1)
The faculty/administration governance committee will decide if these features should be
mandatory (SPT2). If so, they will be supported by the enhanced Instructional Design
staff with workshops (SPT5) and enforced by programs as part of their insurance of the

quality of their offerings (SPT3).

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Explore resources and professional development options available via Open SUNY.
e
Make sure this is in the faculty expectations agreement for those that agree to teach
online if one is adopted.

e
e
e
*
e

Promote effective interaction strategies.
Provide models and examples from your existing faculty.
Use exemplary existing faculty as mentors to help guide and illustrate effective

strategies.

Incorporate standards and strategies to support effective interaction in the online
faculty development.
Review online courses to ensure that they meet the OSCQR (or Quality Matters)
standards and effective practices

5.2. Feedback on student assignments and questions is constructive and
provided in a timely manner. (Current Rating: 2)

Under the Strategic Plan, academic programs will be given additional guidance in order

to discharge their responsibility in this area on an ongoing basis and in their Five Year
Reviews. (SPT3) If new policies are needed to promote this, they will be enacted by the
joint faculty/administrative governance committee. (SPT2).
Open SUNY Suggestions:

e

*
e

Create guidelines on providing online students feedback consistent with effective
practices, and the OSCQR rubric
Provide training, models, and examples.
Document standards, policy, and/or expectations in the online faculty agreement.

22

SUNY Old Westbury

- Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

5.3. Students learn appropriate methods for effective research, including
assessment of the validity of resources and the ability to master resources in an
online environment. (Current Rating: 2)

Academic programs and their faculty will be expected to discharge their responsibility in

this area on an ongoing basis and through their Five Year Reviews (SPT3) to promote
student digital literacy generally (SPT12) as well as competence in their specific

discipline.

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Have the library produce high-quality materials/tutorials to help both faculty and
students in their pursuit of valid resources.

Identify the need for an online learning librarian and hire them.
Train faculty to understand how to use the online resources
Link to resources from each online course in the course template.
Incorporate a library tutorial into each online course with access for faculty so they

e

can assess student progress with the tutorials in a more meaningful way.

Consider using Open SUNY and Online Learning Consortium professional

development resources for assistance in this area.

5.4. Students are provided access to library professionals and resources to help
locate, analyze, evaluate, synthesize, and ethically use a variety of information

resources. (Current Rating: 2)

Academic programs and their faculty will be expected to discharge their responsibility in

this area on an ongoing basis and through their Five Year Reviews (SPT3) to promote
student digital literacy generally (SPT12) as well as competence in their specific
discipline.

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e Add a Library tab to Blackboard and monitor use.
e Develop information literacy module to be included in all online courses during the
first week of the semester.
e

Assess online courses for adequacy and availability of these resources.

5.5 Instructors use specific strategies to create a presence in the course. (Current
Rating: 2)

Faculty are already trained to do this, but it will be reinforced by the augmented
Instructional Design staff (SPT5) via faculty development workshops (SPT10).
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

e

Incorporate the Community of Inquiry model into the online faculty development
program for both new and experienced online faculty.
Create a list of ideas that instructors can use for online presence in the classroom.

23

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
e
e
e

Hold regular “brown bag lunches” for collaboration in pedagogy, (include
experienced online faculty to share tips/suggestions and mentor new faculty and/or
to share experiences with each other), etc.
Provide both online and face-to-face training (if requested) on using the virtual
classroom and/or chat in Blackboard.
Use the OSCQR rubric to support and scaffold effective social and teaching

presence strategies.

6. Student Social Engagement

6.1. Students should be provided a way to interact with other students in an
online community (outside the course). (Current Rating: 1)
Students should be made aware of resources to do this that exist at the college (Skype

for Business, Blackboard Collaborate, Teams in the Portal and Organizations in

Blackboard, and Zoom) (SPT6) and supported in using them by the augmented
Instructional Design Staff (SPT5) as part of fostering their Digital Literacy (SPT12) as

well as promoting community.

New technologies for accomplishing this should be

sought as part of the continuous assessment of non-academic technology needs.

(SPT20)

Open SUNY Suggestion:
e

Create a monitored Facebook or LinkedIn page for all online students.

7. Faculty Support

7.3. Faculty receive training and materials related to Fair Use, plagiarism, and
other relevant legal and ethical concepts. (Current Rating: 2)

The College’s Distance policies require that faculty secure the requisite permissions for

materials they use, this is included in the mandatory training that faculty receive before
their first Distance course, and the Library has prepared materials to help faculty in this.

Additional training in it via professional development workshops (SPT10) will be
conducted by the expanded

Instructional Design staff (SPT5).

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

e¢

Create weekly face-to-face or online webinars that faculty are required to attend to
engage in discussion on pedagogy and effective online course design techniques
and best practices.
Schedule weekly drop-in sessions at a computer lab to assist faculty with technical

issues.

7.4. Faculty are provided on-going professional development related to online
teaching and learning. (Current Rating: 2)
Faculty are currently trained before teaching Distance courses, have limited on-campus
opportunities for professional development in Distance technologies and pedagogies,

24

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

and can make use of Open SUNY professional development opportunities. An
additional Instructional designer (SPT5) will make more on-campus workshops (SPT10)

feasible, in collaboration with the existing TLRC and the Center for Enhanced Teaching
and Learning (CETL) structure being implemented per the Strategic Plan.
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Create a new online faculty development process, and initiative-based experienced
e

online faculty trainings.

Nominate two online teaching ambassadors for system-wide recognition.

7.5. Clear standards are established for faculty engagement and expectations
around online teaching (e.g., response time, contact information, etc.) (Current
Rating: 1)

The faculty/administration governance committee will decide if these should be
standardized for our campus (SPT2). If so, they will be enforced by programs as part of

their insurance of the quality of their offerings (SPT3).

7.6. Faculty are informed about emerging technologies and the selection and use
of new tools. (Current Rating: 1)

The augmentation of our Instructional Design staff (SPT5) will make it possible to

research and disseminate information about these, which is an explicit goal of the
Strategic Plan (SPT6 and SPT11)
Open SUNY Suggestions:

e
e

Provide information on new technology to faculty via a monthly newsletter and
scheduled webinar trainings.

Create a process to move a new technology from an idea to experiment to larger

scale adoption by the institution.

8. Student Support

8.1. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program to
determine if they possess the self-motivation and commitment to learn online.
(Current Rating: 0)
Since the College’s Strategic Plan emphasizes cultivating students’ Digital Literacy
(SPT12) and therefore promotes use of Distance formats, it calls for this to be done in
“ways that support student growth and success” (Goal 1, Objective A, Strategy 8, 3°
bullet point, p. 5), which means helping students approach Online courses realistically.
Therefore, the Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will work with the second
Instructional Designer (SPT5) to create prominent links from the College’s public
website and internal Portal to the Open SUNY SmarterMeasure assessment tool that
helps students gauge their readiness for Online classes, and also identify the skills they
need to cultivate to work effectively in an online or technology-rich environment. In
addition, the Director of Distance Learning will work with the First Year Program to

25

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

basic Blackboard literacy is developed in First Year students in the college orientation
part of the Freshman Seminar.

8.2. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program to
determine if they have access to the minimal technology skills and equipment
required by the course design. (Current Rating: 1)

Students are currently directed to the Open SUNY website to determine if they have the

requisite equipment to take an online class at Old Westbury. The same resource
created in 8.1 above will be able to help students also assess if they have the
technology skills (SPT1, SPT5, SPT12).

Open SUNY Suggestion:
¢«
Consider posting information on a prospective online student landing webpage with
this information.

8.3. Before starting an online program, students receive (or have access to)
information about program, including admission requirements, tuition and fees,
books and supplies, technical and proctoring requirements, and student support
services. (Current Rating: 2)
The College website has significant information about its programs, admissions
requirements and procedures, tuition and fees, technical requirements, and student
support services, and information about books and supplies can be found at the College

bookstore’s site.

For the future, the Strategic Plan calls for the website to be upgraded

with improved academic department and degree pages (SPT15), and for administrative
systems to be enhanced. The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) and augmented

Instructional Design staff (SPT5) will assist the College Communications office with this.
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Develop a process for the delivery of Accuplacer virtually.

e
e
e

Appraise best virtual institutional location for student online readiness indicator
assessments.
Explore current processes listed in benchmark and amend accordingly to
accommodate virtual completion.
Determine which fees are applicable to online learners.

8.4. Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have access to
training and information they will need to secure required materials through

electronic databases, interlibrary loans, government archives, new services and
other sources. (Current Rating: 2)

Faculty have the primary responsibility to make sure students Know what they need to
do to fulfill course assignments, and the mandatory training they receive before doing
their first Distance course familiarizes them with the resources that are available and

26

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

how to inform students about them.

First and foremost among these is the Library’s

extensive online presence, both at its own website and via prominent links in the

College’s LMS. However, since expanding students’ familiarity and comfort with online

research and utilization of new technologies (SPT6) are part of developing their Digital
Literacy (SPT12), strategic plan calls for vigorous expansion of activities that promote it.

8.5. Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have access to

appropriate technical assistance and technical support staff. (Current Rating: 2)

The College provides access to the Open SUNY Helpdesk and the College’s own
Helpdesk directs student inquiries about Blackboard to the campus’ Instructional

Designer.

The addition of a second Instructional Designer will increase our capacity to

provide such help (SPT5), not simply to address issue as they arise, but as part of the

larger campaign to promote students’ Digital Literacy (SPT12).

8.6. Support personnel are available to address student questions, problems, bug
reporting, and complaints. (Current Rating: 2)
The College provides access to the Open

SUNY Helpdesk and the College’s own

Helpdesk directs student inquiries about Blackboard to the campus’ Instructional
Designer.

The addition of a second Instructional Designer will increase our capacity to

provide such help (SPT5), not simply to address issues as they arise, but as part of the
larger campaign to promote students’ Digital Literacy (SPT12).
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
e
e

Develop a concierge model for the vetting of online student issues.
Formulate cross-training for delivery of concierge services.
Track call times to inform help resolution effectiveness.

8.7. Students have access to effective academic, personal, and career counseling.
(Current Rating: 2)
Faculty and staff advisers routinely interact effectively with students via email, but the
Strategic Plan’s call to increase awareness of existing and future technology resources
means that the Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) should work with the Instructional

Design team (SPT5) to help faculty adopt the campus’ Skype for Business and
Blackboard Collaborate systems as appropriate.

Also, the Strategic Plan calls for the

College to increase its use of predictive analytics, notifications, and early warnings in an

email-based system (EAB presently). (SPT13)

Remote personal counseling, in the form of psychological counseling, is problematic for
reasons of both FERPA and liability, so our Health Services department would try to
refer a student to an appropriate local provider rather than provide the service itself.
The College’s Career Planning and Development office has a robust online presence
already, but the Strategic Plan calls for it to expand by hiring a part-time career planning

27

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
and development technology specialist to maintain databases and promote services via

social/print media (SPT13: Goal 1, Objective C, Strategy 1, pp. 20, 22)

Open SUNY Suggestions:
Review and revise (if necessary) current FERPA practices as they relate to the online
learner.
e
Investigate what other similar institutions in SUNY are doing to address this indicator.

e

Train student support staff.

8.8. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are provided in order to respond to
students' most common questions regarding online education. (Current Rating:

2)

This is not addressed directly in the Strategic Plan, but the regularization of the

executive leadership of Distance learning (SPT1) plus the expansion of the Instructional

Design staff (SPT5) will create enough resources that a FAQ page linked to the
College’s public-facing website, the internal Portal, and Blackboard can be created.

8.10. Policy, processes, and resources are in place to support students with

disabilities. (Current Rating: 2)
We currently
Students with
with technical
inspection of

have an Accommodations Coordinator in our Office for Services for
Disabilities whose responsibilities include supporting individual students
needs; we have recently purchased Blackboard Ally to automate
online course materials for accessibility and are piloting its use; and further

enhancement in this regard is addressed in the Strategic Plan by its commitment to
insure that all online resources are accessible. (SPT9)
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Develop a communications process for online students requesting an
e

e
e

accommodation by putting a link in each course, perhaps in the syllabus.

Develop a process for the online delivery of the requested accommodation.
Webpages to link to describing the process will be needed. This could go ina

syllabus template for all online courses.

Explore tools needed for digitized signatures.
Also display this information so that it is accessible to prospective students.

8.11. Students have access to required course materials in print and/or digital
format, such as ISBN numbers for textbooks, book suppliers, and delivery modes
prior to course enrollment. (Current Rating: 1)
Information about books and supplies can be found at the College bookstore’s site, but
this should be enhanced based on the Strategic Plan’s call for “leading edge student
services, including online students.” (SPT 14)
8.12. Program demonstrates a student-centered focus rather than trying to fit
existing on-campus services to the online student. (Current Rating: 2)

28

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Many of the College’s services are web-based now, but this should be enhanced
because of the Strategic Plan’s call for “leading edge student services, including online

students.” (SPT14)

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

e

Explore institutional structures and options and develop policies and procedures for

effective delivery of student-centered services.
Create a landing page for online students that describes everything from the online
student perspective.

8.13. Efforts are made to engage students with the program and institution in
order to minimize feelings of isolation and alienation. (1)

Information on co-curricular and community activities is available on the College’s
website and via an informational “student center” accessible via a tab in Blackboard, but
since the campus is only introducing its first Online degree programs now, promoting

online engagement has not been a particular need or priority. As online-only students
begin to enroll, this will become more important. The enhancements to the web site
called for by the Strategic Plan will help with this (SPT15), as will the student-to-student
communications fostered per item 6.1 (SPT 5, SPT6, SPT12, and SPT20).
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
e
e

Form an Online Student committee to help determine needs.
Stream athletic games online to students.
Record /stream special events.

e

Foster club(s) for online only students.

e

Include online graduates in commencement.

8.14. The institution provides guidance/tutorials for students in the use of all

forms of technologies used for course delivery. (Current Rating: 2)

Links to the Open SUNY Student Orientation are provided, and instructors are trained to
introduce all technological elements used in a course early-on, but the expansion of the

Instructional Design staff (SPT5) is intended to facilitate more systematic orientation,
training, and support opportunities for students as part of the promotion of their Digital
Literacy (SPT12).

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Review current tutorial resources and identify gaps.
¢
Develop/adopt additional tutorials focused on technologies used for course delivery.
e
Link to the Open SUNY HelpDesk knowledge base from the online student landing
page, Blackboard, and within each course template.

8.15. Tutoring is available as a learning resource. (Current Rating: 2)

29

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

The campus currently provides Pearson/Smarthinking online tutoring to students for

free, and the Strategic Plan calls for this to be continued. (SPT13) This service would
be enhanced by greater promotion and publicity, which the Director of Distance
Learning (SPT1) will need to arrange.
Open SUNY Suggestion:
e
Create a mechanism to assess the effectiveness of the service for continuous
improvement.

8.16. Students are provided clear information for enlisting help from the
institution. (Current Rating: 2)

Contact information is given liberally on the website and in Blackboard, and the Student

Portal contains much information as well as numerous forms through which students
can get assistance. However, the very multiplicity of sources of information and

destinations of specific requests can be confusing to students, so the Strategic Plan’s

calls for “leading edge” student services (SPT14) and a “next generation” website
(SPT16) should include user-oriented design features that lead the student to the help
they need.
9. Evaluation

and Assessment

9.1. The program is assessed through an evaluation process that applies specific
established standards. (Current Rating: 1)
The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will need to work with departments and
schools to help them incorporate the Distance elements of their programs into the Five
Year Reviews (SPT3) and with the Director of Assessment to conduct the periodic
assessment of Distance Learning from an academic point of view (SPT4).
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Establish a Program Review template to conduct reviews of online courses in each
discipline.
e
Produce an Annual Institutional Report that includes metrics on retention and
completion rates of online students as well as other appropriate measures.
e
Review/Assess all online programs/courses annually.

9.2. A variety of data (academic and administrative information) are used to

regularly and frequently evaluate program effectiveness and to guide changes

toward continual improvement. (Current Rating: 1)

The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will need to work with the SPAAR committee

established by the Strategic Plan to take the results of the periodic assessment of
Distance Learning from an academic point of view (item 9.1, above) and from various
administrative points of view (items 9.4, 9.5, 9.6, 9.7, and 9.10, below) to evaluate
program effectiveness and guide changes toward continual improvement (SPT4).

30

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Develop/employ an annual surveys of faculty, students, and staff, not as an
academic program evaluation, but for program evaluation and improvement.
e
Work with your Institutional Research to identify/review metrics and enlist their
assistance to gather data for this purpose.
e
Consider participating in Open SUNY research initiatives when available.

9.3. Intended learning outcomes at the course and program level are reviewed
regularly to ensure alignment, clarity, utility, appropriateness, and effectiveness.
(Current Rating: 2)
Programs will need to include their Distance offerings in reviews of their learning
outcomes in Five Year Reviews and any other assessment reports. (SPT3)
9.4. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of support services for
faculty and students. (Current Rating: 1)

The College is just beginning to conduct annual assessments of administrative services.
The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will continue to conduct and expand the
scope of these, and will need to work with the SPAAR committee established by the
Strategic Plan (SPT4) to incorporate these into the ongoing and cumulative
assessmenis of the effectiveness of the Distance program specifically and the College’s
progress toward its strategic goals more generally.
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Every time someone calls our Helpdesk, they get the option to give feedback on that
interaction.

e

¢

Determine at which touch points it makes sense to ask for feedback, with what

frequency, when feedback will be reviewed, and what will be done with it.
Create a satisfaction survey for faculty and students to assess support needs.

9.5. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of student retention in
online courses and programs. (Current Rating: 0)

The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will need to work with the Director of
Institutional Research to put this assessment into place, and then integrate it with the
administrative assessment of the Distance program, in order to execute the
implementation of this Readiness Assessment (SPT8).

9.6. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of recruitment
practices. (Current Rating: 0)
The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will need to work with the Vice-President of
Enrollment Services to put this assessment into place, and then integrate it with the
administrative assessment of the Distance program, in order to execute the
implementation of this Readiness Assessment (SPT8).

31

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
Open SUNY Suggestion:
e
Set up the SUNY Enrollment Roundtable for your campus.

9.7. Program demonstrates compliance and review of accessibility standards
(Section 508, etc.). (Current Rating: 1)

The Strategic Plan commits the College to review online materials to ensure they are

ADA compliant. (STP9)

Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
e
e

e

ee

e@

ee

@

e

Develop faculty training on accessibility standards.
Create Compliance Task Force to review compliance with accessibility standards.
Provide clear public info on the website on this specific to online courses and

programs.
Specify the designated personnel on campus with knowledge specific to the issues

of online students with disabilities.
Create and provide training for anyone involved in serving online students with
disabilities.
Incorporate UDL strategies in online course development and materials.

Provide online faculty training in UDL.
Implement the use of OSCQR

to evaluate Accessibility in all courses.

Create a faculty self-assessment.

9.8. Course evaluations collect feedback on the effectiveness of instruction in
relation to faculty performance evaluations. (Current Rating: 1)

The College recently switched from paper to online evaluations, which for the first time

made it possible to collect them for online classes. Unfortunately, the system did not
work well, so the College is in the process of switching to another vendor. This

changeover is almost complete, so once it’s done performance of this indicator will

improve. Course evaluations are mainly factored into departmental reviews of faculty,
so online courses will now be part of that (SPT3)
Open SUNY Suggestion:
e
After migration to the new evaluation system, review evaluations to determine if any
changes/additions are necessary to address/collect online teaching and learning
specific metrics.

9.9. A process is in place and followed for the institutional assessment of faculty
online teaching performance. (Current Rating: 1)
The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will work with the Director of Assessment to
conduct the periodic assessment of Distance Learning from an academic point of view
to see how well the faculty teaching online perform in terms of helping students achieve
their courses’ learning outcomes, using the College’s standard assessment process.

(SPT4).

32

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
9.10. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of stakeholder (e.g.,
learners, faculty, staff) satisfaction with the online program. (Current Rating: 0)
The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will put this assessment into place, and then
integrate it with the administrative assessment of the Distance program, in order to
execute the implementation of this Readiness Assessment (SPT8).
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e

Create team to assist Director of Distance Learning to develop a satisfaction survey.

e
e
e
e

Analyze the results of the survey and report them.
Prioritize and address top 3 improvements needed and report them in the analysis.
Redo the assessment in Spring 2020
Analyze and report results.

e

Implement the survey in Fall 2019.

9.11. Course evaluations collect student feedback on quality of online course
materials. (Current Rating: 0)
The Director of Distance Learning (SPT1) will work with Academic Affairs to add this
feedback into the course evaluation instrument in order to execute the implementation
of this Readiness Assessment (SPT8) (Current Rating: 1)

V. Stakeholder Engagement/Inteqration with Campus

Planning

As indicated in the previous section, this Institutional Readiness Assessment
Implementation Plan has been developed in tandem with the Colleges new Strategic
Plan, and is deeply embedded in it. Via the Strategic Plan, it will inform the campus

community in general of the primary needs to be addressed.

This report will be posted

in the College portal, so it can be consulted for its links to the Quality Scorecard and the
details of the indicators where improvement is needed. It will also be used directly in
the further development and implementation of the Distance program and the IT
department's Strategic Plans.
Open SUNY Suggestions:
e
Do you want or need feedback or input from anyone else?

e
e
¢

What other campus or faculty events or meetings might this be presented or opened
for comment and feedback?
Who else could you share this with?
Consider making sure that Distance Learning is added to the various existing
campus processes like the regular campus budgeting process, institutional
effectiveness process and/or any functional or area reviews that may take place.

33

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

VI. Benchmarking
Old Westbury will use the other SUNY institutions and Open SUNY as resources

for benchmarking. In addition, national surveys through organizations such as the
Online Learning Consortium should be evaluated as possible benchmarking standards.

To provide accurate, real-time, and historical data for decision-making, a Distance
Education Dashboard will be developed by the College’s Office of Institutional
Research.

At the end of each term, it will issue a report with the following data:

1. Number of Sections
a. Total number of sections offered (all modes of instruction)
i. By semester
ii, Annually (Fall, Winter, Spring, Summer)

b. Total number of distance learning sections (fully online and hybrid/blended)
i. By semester

|

ii, Annually
c. Total number of fully online sections
i. By semester

ii. Annually
d. Total number of blended sections
i. By semester
ii. Annually

2. Number of Courses
a. Total number of unique courses offered (all modes of instruction)
i. By semester
ii, Annually
b. Total number of unique distance learning courses (fully online and

hybrid/blended)

i. By semester
ii. Annually

c. Total number of unique fully online courses
i. By semester
ii, Annually
d. Total number of unique blended courses

34

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
i. By semester
ii. Annually
3. Course Registrations
a. Total registrations in all sections offered (all modes of instruction)
i. By semester
ii. Annually
b. Total registrations in distance learning sections (fully online and
hybrid/blended)
i. By semester
ii. Annually
c. Total registrations in fully online sections

i. By semester
ii. Annually
d. Total registrations in blended sections

i. By semester
ii. Annually
4. FTEs

a. Total FTEs in all sections offered (all modes of instruction)
i. By semester
ii. Annually

b. Total FTEs in distance learning sections (fully online and hybrid/blended)
i. By semester
ii, Annually
c. Total FTEs in fully online sections
i. By semester
il. Annually
d. Total FTEs in blended sections
i. By semester
ii. Annually
5. Number of fully online students
a. Unduplicated number of student enrolled only in online courses
i. By semester
ii. Annually

35

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
b. Unduplicated number of student enrolled only in blended courses
i. By semester
ii. Annually
c. Unduplicated number of student enrolled only in online and/or blended courses

i. By semester
ii. Annually
6. Demographics of fully online students (by semester/annually)
a. State/County of current residence

b. Major
c. Age
d. Gender

e. FT/PT
f. Freshman or Transfer
g. First time/Returning

h. GPA
i. Transfer vs. 18 Year
7. Demographics of graduates
a. Percentage of credits by distance education (fully online or hybrid/blended)
b. Percentage of credits fully online
c. Percentage of credits blended
d. Percentage of graduates who completed only courses through distance

education at Old Westbury
8. Course grade distribution
a. All courses -all modes of instruction (aggregated)
i. By semester
ii, Annually
b. Distance learning sections (fully online and hybrid/blended) (aggregated)
i. By semester
ii. Annually
c. Fully online sections (aggregated)
i. By semester
ii. Annually
d. Hybrid/Blended sections (aggregated)

36

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
i. By semester
ii. Annually
9. Course grade distribution by course
a. All courses - all modes of instruction (aggregated sections)

i. By semester
ii. Annually
b. Distance learning sections (fully online and hybrid/blended) (aggregated
sections)

i. By semester
ii, Annually
c. Fully online sections (aggregated sections)

i. By semester
ii. Annually
d. Hybrid/Blended sections (aggregated sections)

i. By semester
ii, Annually
10. Course grade distribution by section
a. All sections - all modes of instruction

i. By semester
ii. Annually
b. Distance learning sections (fully online and hybrid/blended)
i. By semester
ii. Annually
c. Fully online sections
i. By semester
ii. Annually

d. Hybrid/Blended sections
i. By semester
ii. Annually

37

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

VIL. Online Program
Process

Quality Management/Continuous

Improvement

As indicated in Appendix C, item 4, ongoing institutional assessment and planning is an

important emphasis of the College’s Strategic Plan.

Since the results of this Institutional

Readiness Assessment have been strongly integrated into the Strategic Plan, when the
Strategic Planning Assessment, Analysis, and Review (SPAAR) Committee, which is
currently beginning to operate, conducts its regular assessments and planning,
monitoring the progress of and directing additional enhancements to the Distance
program will be an integral part of this process. It is expected that the Director of

Distance Learning and the SPAAR committee will work together, using this document

as a guide linking the Strategic Plan and the results of the Institutional Readiness
Assessment process.

In addition to being part of this ongoing institutional assessment process, Distance

Learning is assessed as an academic program every five years, a policy that has been
in existence since 2015 and is reiterated in the Strategic Plan. The results of the next
round, which is scheduled for 2020, will indicate whether and in what ways Online and
Hybrid courses need to be improved pedagogically.

Similarly, as part of the enhancements called for by the Strategic Plan in Appendix C,
Item 3, academic programs will be tasked and helped with explicitly focusing on their
Distance elements in their periodic reviews. The results of these reviews should

similarly inform redesign and updating of the content and delivery of their offerings.
Finally, instituting the assessments in the several administrative areas called for in
indicators 9.4, 9.5, 9.6, 9.7, 9.10, and 9.11 will give data indicating the College’s
performance in these aspects of the Distance Program.

When the results of enhancements indicate that the College’s rating in an indicator has
moved up a level, it will be noted in an electronic version of the Indicator List contained
in Appendix D.

38

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

e

Implementation

Planning

Provost:
ClO:
VP Student Affairs:
Faculty Governance Leader:
Programs Directors:

Distance Learning Leader
Library Director:
Institutional Research:
Deans:

Faculty Members:

Student Government:
IT Staff:
AVP Academic Affairs:
AVP Business Affairs:

e

Plan submitted

Team
Patrick O'Sullivan
Evan Kobolakis

Wayne Edwards

Katharine Greenberg

Roger Mayer

Edward Bever, Coordinator of Plan Development
Antonia Digregorio
Sandra Kaufman, Jacob Heller
Barbara Hillery, Jason Zhu, Nancy Brown
Thomas Lilly, Ryoko. Yamamoto, Andrew Hashey
Jeanette Adelson
Alexander Sartakov, Eduardo Espinoza, Chandra
Shehigian
Anthony Barbera
Patrick Lettini

by:

Provost Patrick O’Sullivan

e

Approval

by the President of the Institution

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

NOV

39

4 2019

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

e Appendices
Appendix A: Indicators with Consensus

Ratings Sorted by Rating

Appendix B: Documented Best Practices
Appendix C: The Strategic Plan and the Institutional Readiness Indicators
Appendix D: Indicator Enhancement Tracker

40

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Appendix A. Indicators with Ratings and Strategic Plan Topics
The following table lists the indicators with their consensus ratings. To facilitate
reference from these indicators to the Strategic Plan, each is listed with the Strategic
Plan Topic(s) in Appendix C where it is addressed.

412A

The institution has a governance structure to enable clear,

effective, and comprehensive decision making related to online
education.

1,2,3,4

The institution has policy and guidelines that confirm a student who

registers in an online course or program is the same student who
1.2

participates in and completes the course or program and receives

academic credit. This is done by verifying the identity of a student by
using methods such as (a) a secure login and pass code, (b)

17

proctored examinations, or (c) other technologies and practices that

are effective in verifying student identity.
1:3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7

1.8

1.9

2.1

The institution has a policy for intellectual property of course
materials. It specifically addresses online course materials, and is
publicly visible online.

The institution has defined the strategic value of online learning to
its enterprise and to stakeholders.

4,6,7,8

The organizational structure of the online program supports the

1,2,3,4

institution's mission, values, and strategic plan.

The online program's strategic plan is reviewed for its continuing
relevance, and periodically improved and updated.
The institution has a process for planning and resource allocation
for the online program, including financial resources, in accordance
with strategic planning.
The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation,

including financial resources, in order to effectively support the

mission of online education.
The institution has a governance structure to enable systematic

and continuous improvement related to the administration of online
education.
A documented technology plan that includes electronic security
measures (e.g., password protection, encryption, secure online or

proctored exams, etc.) is in place and operational to ensure quality,

in accordance with established standards and regulatory

4, 7, 19,
20
5, 7,12,
13, 14, 17
1,2,3,4

4,14, 17

requirements.

The technology delivery systems are highly reliable and operable

22

with measurable standards being utilized such as system downtime

2.3

A centralized system provides support for building and maintaining
the online education infrastructure.

tracking or task benchmarking.

41

18

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

2.4
2.5
2.6

The course delivery technology is considered a mission critical
enterprise system and supported as such.

18

The institution has established a contingency plan for the

continuance of data centers and support services in the event of
prolonged service disruption.
Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and

use of new technologies and skills.

5, 6, 11,
12, 14, 16

Whether the institution maintains local data centers (servers),

and/or contracts for outsourced,
2.7

3.1

hosted services or cloud services,

those systems are administered in compliance with established data
management practices such as the Information Technology Service
Management (ITSM) standards which includes appropriate power
protection, backup solutions, and disaster recovery plans, etc.
A process is followed for evaluating the effectiveness of current
and emerging technologies to support the achievement of learning
outcomes and delivery of course content.

18

5, 19

3.2

Course embedded technology actively supports the achievement
of learning outcomes and delivery of course content and superfluous
use of technology is minimized.

3, 4,5, 10

3.3

Instructional materials and course syllabi are reviewed periodically
to ensure they meet online course and program learning outcomes.

2,3

3.4

A course development process is followed that ensures courses
are designed so that students develop the necessary knowledge and
skills to meet measurable learning outcomes at the course and
program level.

3.5

A process is followed that ensures that permissions (Creative
Commons, Copyright, Fair Use, Public Domain, etc.) are in place for

appropriate use of online course materials.
3.6

Course assignments and activities are reviewed periodically to

ensure they meet online course and program learning outcomes.

3.7

Student-centered instruction is considered during the coursedevelopment process.

3.8

There is consistency in course development for student retention
and quality.

3.9
3.10

3.11

3.12

Course design promotes both faculty and student engagement.
Guidelines regarding minimum requirements for course
development, design, and delivery of online instruction (such as
course syllabus elements, course materials, assessment strategies,
faculty feedback) are followed.
Usability tests are conducted and applied, and recommendations
based on Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAGs)
incorporated.

are

Curriculum development is a core responsibility for faculty (i.e.,

faculty should be involved in either the development or the decision
making for the online curriculum choices).

42

5, 9, 10
2, 5, 10

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

The online course includes a syllabus outlining course objectives,

4.1

4.2
4.3

learning outcomes, evaluation methods, books and supplies,

technical and proctoring requirements, and other related course
information, making course requirements transparent.
The course structure ensures that all online students, regardless of
location, have access to library/learning resources that adequately
support online courses.
Expectations for student assignment completion, grade policy, and

faculty response are clearly provided in the course syllabus.

2,5, 10

SP Goal 1,
Objective A,
Strategy 7

2, 5, 10

44

Links or explanations of technical support are available in the
course (i.e., each course provides suggested solutions to potential
technical issues and/or links for technical assistance).

4.5

and may be accessed by multiple operating systems and

4.6

disabilities via alternative instructional strategies and/or referral to
special institutional resources.

5, 9, 10

4.7

collaboration (i.e., web conferencing, instant messaging, etc.) if

Opportunities/tools are provided to encourage student-student

5, 6, 10,
12

4.8

Rules and standards for appropriate online student behavior are
provided within the course.

5, 10, 12

5.1
5.2

5.3

instructional materials are accessible to the student, easy to use,

applications.

Instructional materials are easily accessed by students with

appropriate.

5, 9, 10

Student-to-student interaction and faculty-to-student interaction are

2,3

Feedback on student assignments and questions is constructive

2,3

essential characteristics and are facilitated through a variety of ways.
and provided in a timely manner.

Students learn appropriate methods for effective research,

including assessment of the validity of resources and the ability to
master resources in an online environment.

3, 12

5.4

Students are provided access to library professionals and
resources to help locate, analyze, evaluate, synthesize, and ethically
use a variety of information resources.

3, 12

5.5

instructors use specific strategies to create a presence in the
course.

5, 10

6.4
7.4

Students should be provided a way to interact with other students

in an online community (outside the course).

Technical assistance is provided for faculty during online course

development and online teaching.

7.2

The institution ensures faculty receive training, assistance, and
support to prepare for course development and teaching online.

7.3

Faculty receive training and materials related to Fair Use,
plagiarism, and other relevant legal and ethical concepts.

43

6, 8, 12,

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

7.4
75
7.6
8.1

8.2

8.3

Faculty are provided on-going professional development related to

online teaching and learning.

Clear standards are established for faculty engagement and

expectations around online teaching (e.g., response time, contact
information, etc.)

5, 10
2,3

Faculty are informed about emerging technologies and the
selection and use of new tools.

5, 6, 11

Before starting an online program, students are advised about the
program to determine if they possess the self-motivation and

1,5, 12

commitment to learn online.

Before starting an online program, students are advised about the
program to determine if they have access to the minimal technology
skills and equipment required by the course design.
Before starting an online program, students receive (or have
access to) information about program, including admission

requirements, tuition and fees, books and supplies, technical! and
proctoring requirements, and student support services.

1,5, 12

15

Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have

8.4

access to training and information they will need to secure required
materials through electronic databases, interlibrary loans,
government archives, new services and other sources.

Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have

8.5

access to appropriate technical assistance and technical support

8.6

Support personnel are available to address student questions,
problems, bug reporting, and complaints.

8.7

Students have access to effective academic,
counseling.

staff.

personal, and career

8.8

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are provided in order to
respond to students' most common questions regarding online
education.

8.9

Students are provided non-instructional support services such as
admission, financial assistance, registration/enrollment, etc.

8.10

Policy, processes, and resources are in place to support students
with disabilities.

8.14

digital format, such as ISBN numbers for textbooks, book suppliers,

Students have access to required course materials in print and/or

and delivery modes prior to course enrollment.

8.12

Program demonstrates a student-centered focus rather than trying
to fit existing on-campus services to the online student.

8.13

Efforts are made to engage students with the program and
institution in order to minimize feelings of isolation and alienation.

8.14

The institution provides guidance/tutorials for students in the use of
all forms of technologies used for course delivery.

8.15

Tutoring is available as a learning resource.

44

6, 12

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

8.16

9.1

9.2

Students are provided clear information for enlisting help from the

institution.

A process is in place and followed for the assessment of
stakeholder (e.g., learners, faculty, staff) satisfaction with the online
program.
A variety of data (academic and administrative information) are

used to regularly and frequently evaluate program effectiveness and
to guide changes toward continual improvement.

12, 15

1,8

1,3,4

9.3

intended learning outcomes at the course and program level are
reviewed regularly to ensure alignment, clarity, utility,
appropriateness, and effectiveness.

3

9.4

A process is in place and followed for the assessment of support
}
services for faculty and students.

1,4
;

A process is in place and followed for the assessment of student

48

A process is in place and followed for the assessment of

1.8

Program demonstrates compliance and review of accessibility

49

95

‘

96
,

97

,

98
,

9.9
9.10
,
911

retention in online courses and programs.
recruitment practices.

standards (Section 508, etc.)

Course evaluations collect feedback on the effectiveness of
instruction in relation to faculty performance evaluations.
A process is in place and followed for the institutional assessment

.

of faculty online teaching performance.

The program is assessed through an evaluation process that
applies specific established standards.
Course evaluations collect student feedback on quality of online

course materials.

45

'

,

,

3

44
,

134
™
1.8

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Appendix B: Documented

Best Practices

Indicator/Score: Institutional Support #1.3 (Institutional Policy on Intellectual Property)

The institution has a policy for intellectual property of course materials. It specifically
addresses online course materials, and is publicly visible online. / 3

-

-

It’s posted in the faculty portal.
Very clear policy: "Faculty who develop a Distance course maintain ownership
of their intellectual property incorporated into the course.”
Clearly applicable to online courses because contained in Distance Learning

Policy document.
Online courses are treated in the same way as F2F courses.
Acourse is developed by a team has the same policy: each faculty
membership maintains ownership of their intellectual property

into the course.

incorporated

Exception: course development that is a contracted work-for-hire is governed

by the contract.

Name and Contact Info: Edward Bever, Bevere@oldwestbury.edu

Indicator/Score: Technology Support #2.3 - A centralized system provides support for

building and maintaining the online education infrastructure. / 3

-

We have a centralized structure supporting faculty and students that alligns
Technical Support offered from the Service Desk and Instructional Design.
ITS provides technical support to Faculty and Students; password resets,

-

Instructional Design provides Faculty continuous support; introductions to

-

access, registration, adds and changes, email communications via
httos:/Avww.oldwestbury.edu/it

students, how to create content for the course, syllabus, assignments,
gradebook use, assessments.
Instructional Design offers one to one and small group instruction by
department.

Name and Contact Info: Evan Kobolakis, kobolakise@oldwestbury.edu

46

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
Indicator/Score: Technology Support #2.4 - The course delivery technology is considered a
mission critical enterprise system and supported as such. / 3

-

LMS, Blackboard, is hosted at ITEC. Up time and accessibility is measured to

4 9s or 99.99% or 50 minutes per year but that includes maintenance.

Service Level Agreements have been created to prioritize technical support for
Online courses and minimize the impact of disrupted service delivery.
Investment in these contracts reflects recognition that reliability of online
services Is critical to the institution.

Name and Contact Info: Evan Kobolakis, kobolakise@oldwestbury.edu

Indicator/Score: Technology Support #2.7 - Whether the institution maintains local data
centers (servers), and/or contracts for outsourced, hosted services or cloud services, those

systems are administered in compliance with established data management practices such
as the Information Technology Service Management (ITSM) standards which includes
appropriate power protection, backup solutions, and disaster recovery plans, etc. / 3

-

-

LMS is maintained at SUNY ITEC data center — 2.4

Systems comply with established data management practices
Criteria when selecting vendors include stability and security, per standard
expectation of the College’s procurement office

Name and Contact Info: Evan Kobolakis, kobolakise@oldwestbury.edu
Indicator/Score: Course Development and Instructional Design #3.12 - Curriculum
development is a core responsibility for faculty (i.e., faculty should be involved
in either the development or the decision making for the online curriculum

choices). / 3
-

-

-

Faculty create courses, no one else does
No funds allocated to course development, it’s a core responsibility of faculty

(although as part of our current Strategic Plan Academic Affairs offers stipends

as incentives for the preparation and delivery of courses online or as hybrids)

Departments set curricula, faculty create the courses

Curriculum committees exist at college-wide level (a faculty goverance-led
Liberal Education committee oversees General Education, the Curriculum and
Academic Planning Committee (CAP) oversees departmental five-year
program reviews, and CAP and the Faculty Senate approve new curricular
programs). Some schools also have curriculum committees.

Name and Contact Info: Edward Bever, bevere@oldwestbury.edu

47

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
Indicator/Score: Course Structure #4.2 - The course structure ensures that all online

students, regardless of location, have access to library/learning resources that adequately
support online courses. /3
-

-

-

-

Library supports are primarily online via
http://libguides.oldwestbury.edu/c.php?q=640139
Library is increasingly using digital resources

Many courses have a librarian resource embedded, at faculty request, and
issues are resolved quickly
The Writing Center is available online at

httos:/www.oldwestbury.edu/academics/support/writing
The Pearson/Smarthinking Online Tutoring Service is provided free and is
available 24/7 via a Tutoring Center in Blackboard that also includes links to
campus-based tutoring including the Writing Center, the Math Learning
Center, School of Business tutoring, and Arts and Sciences peer tutoring

Student home page in learning management system has a

tab that includes

links to all resources (the same resources available to face-to-face students)

Name and Contact Info: Chandra Shehigian, shehigianc@oldwestbury.edu
Indicator/Score: Course Structure #4.4 - Links or explanations of technical support are

available in the course (i.e., each course provides suggested solutions to potential
technical issues and/or links for technical assistance). / 3

-

-

A link to Blackboard Student Help is in every course in the course menu

Contact information for the Service Desk is in Student Center tab
Contact information for Open SUNY is in the Student Center tab and on the
Homepage in Blackboard

Name and Contact Info: Chandra Shehigian, shehigianc@oldwestbury.edu
Indicator/Score: Faculty Support #7.1 - Technical assistance is provided for faculty during
online course development and online teaching. / 3
Consultations and workshops are provided during the training program for
technical training on the LMS

Faculty can contact the instructional designer if there are any technical

questions throughout the semester.

Name and Contact Info: Chandra Shehigian, shehigianc@oldwestbury.edu

48

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
Indicator/Score: Faculty Support #7.2 - The institution ensures faculty receive training,
assistance, and support to prepare for course development and teaching online. / 3

-

-

-

-

Faculty that have not had training before will go through a hybrid-training
program with individual/small group meetings and work on the LMS. Technical
and pedagogical training is provided

Faculty will meet individually to discuss their course with the instructional

designer and set a course development plan
Faculty will receive a development site with a standard course template

The course is reviewed before the course is taught using the OSCQR rubric

The instructional designer will review the course during the third -fourth week

of the semester to see if there are any issues have risen during the first three

weeks.

Name and Contact Info: Chandra Shehigian, shehigianc@oldwestbury.edu

Indicator/Score: Student Support #8.9 - Students are provided non-instructional support
services such as admission, financial assistance, registration/enrollment, etc. / 3

-

Information on admissions, registration, payment, support services, and extracurricular organizations and actvities are posted online at the College website

(accessible to the general public) and in the Student Portal (for admitted

-

students) as appropriate.
Students can complete the admissions process, course registration, and bill
payment online.
Student Center in Blackboard includes information and links to non-academic
services, programs, and events including the Student Government
Association, Old Westbury Web Radio, OWTV (which has a Youtube channel
of student videos), the Student Newspaper (which is available online as well
as in print) , Athletics (including streaming media), Student Health Serivces

(including Couseling and Psychological Wellness), Student Clubs, Greek

-

organizations, and Services for Students with Disabilities.

Academic advising is conducted by electronically as well as face-to-face.

Name and Contact Info: Edward

Bever, bevere@oldwestbury.edu

49

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Appendix C. The Strategic Plan and the Indicators
In this section topics in the Strategic Plan (specifically the Strategic Plan’s
Implementation Plan) related to Distance Learning are presented, with the specific
Indicators in the Institutional Readiness Assessment they address listed below them. In
some cases, the topics are individual items in the Strategic Plan, in others they combine

items that cover the same issue in different places in the Plan, and in still others they

combine related items. In each case, the strategic priority given to the item in the Plan
is given (from A, highest priority, to C). Planners and assessors can reference from this

section to Part A to find the details of how the individual indicators are addressed in the
Plan.

To provide a top level conceptual framework for this section, the topics are grouped into
five major themes:
e

Enhancing Administration and Governance of the Distance Program (Topics 1-4),

e

Increasing Support of the Online Program (Topics 5-9),

e

Promoting Faculty Development (10-11),

e

Enhancing the Student Online Experience (12-15), and

e

Maintaining and Upgrading the Technological Infrastructure (16-20).

Note that since the direct connections with the Strategic Plan are in the 20 more specific

topics these themes encompass, the themes are not enumerated. Instead, the topics
are enumerated as a single list (1-20) to facilitate cross-referencing between this section
and Parts Ill and IV and Appendix A, above.
Enhance

Administration

and Governance

of the Distance

Program

1. “Regularize the executive leadership of Distance Learning by either hiring a

staff director or appointing a Faculty member with course releases and
stipend.”

Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 2, Part B, 3 Bullet Point, p. 38. (Priority A)
Old Westbury has offered online classes since 1999, but for more than a decade it

was at the initiative of individual faculty members, who got their training from the

SUNY Learning Network, and only a dozen or so were offered each semester.

What

supervision existed was first a faculty member doing college service, and later an
Instructional Technology support staff member, who served as the SUNY Learning
Network campus coordinator submitting courses to be listed by the SLN and
announcing SLN training schedules to faculty interested in teaching online.
In 2010 the Provost launched a Hybrid Initiative to encourage and support the
creation of hybrid courses with stipends and campus-based workshops on hybrid

50

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

pedagogy, and appointed as coordinator a senior faculty member, who received a

stipend and
rapidly to 30
become the
classes, and

Learning.

a course release each semester. The number of hybrid courses rose
in Spring, 2012, at which point the Hybrid Initiative was expanded to
Distance Initiative to extend stipend and workshop support to online
the coordinator of the Hybrid Initiative became the Director of Distance

The number of hybrid classes continued to rise, to 98 in Fall, 2018, while

the number of online classes has risen to 40 in the same semester.

In addition, the

College has launched its first online program, an MS in Accounting, and has at least

one other online program in development.

Between 2014 and 2016, however, the Director of Distance Learning transitioned

from faculty to administration by becoming the founding director of the College’s new

School of Professional Studies. This position does not include the responsibilities of
the Director of Distance Learning, but the Director of the SPS continued to serve in
this capacity as an additional duty. This arrangement functioned adequately when
the School of Professional Studies was nascent, but since it grew rapidly it became

increasingly difficult for the Director to oversee Distance Learning on top of his

primary responsibilities to the SPS.

The Strategic Plan calls for this position to be

regularized so that the person in it can adequately address the growing
responsibilities it entails.

The Director of Distance Learning will naturally be involved in initiating, overseeing,
and facilitating all enhancements to the Distance Program, but beyond this general
responsibility, the following indicators will be specifically impacted by the
regularization of this role:
1.1. The institution has a governance structure to enable clear, effective, and
comprehensive decision making related to online education. (1)

1.5. The organizational structure of the online program supports the institution's
mission, values, and strategic plan. (2)
1.9. The institution has a governance structure to enable systematic and

continuous improvement related to the administration of online education. (1)
In addition, it is anticipated that the Director of Distance Learning will play a
particularly crucial role in overseeing enhancements, in ways outlined in the
discussion of each specific item in Part IV of this document, in the following areas:

8.1. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program
to determine if they possess the self-motivation and commitment to learn online.

(0)

8.2. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program
to determine if they have access to the minimal technology skills and equipment
required by the course design. (1)

51

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

8.7. Students have access to effective academic, personal, and career

counseling. (2)

8.8. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are provided in order to respond to
students’ most common questions regarding online education. (2)
8.15. Tutoring is available as a learning resource. (2)

9.1. The program is assessed through an evaluation process that applies specific
established standards. (1)

9.2. A variety of data (academic and administrative information) are used to
regularly and frequently evaluate program effectiveness and to guide changes
toward continual improvement. (1)
9.4. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of support services for
faculty and students. (1)

9.5. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of student retention in
online courses and programs. (0)

9.6. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of recruitment
practices. (0)
9.9. A process is in place and followed for the institutional assessment of faculty
online teaching performance. (1)
9.10. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of stakeholder (e.g.,
learners, faculty, staff) satisfaction with the online program. (0)
2. “Create a joint administrative/faculty task force/governance committee to
promote core standards”
Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 2, Part B, 1St Bullet Point, p. 38. (Priority A)
The joint administrative/faculty governance committee the Strategic Plan calls for will
effectively act as the legislature for the Distance Program, enacting policies and
endorsing procedures to insure that they take into account the varying needs of the
different academic programs across the campus and give them legitimacy in an
institution where faculty have responsibility for the design and delivery of the
curriculum. The indicators the creation of this body will directly impact include:
1.1. The institution has a governance structure to enable clear, effective, and
comprehensive decision making related to online education. (1)

52

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
1.5. The organizational structure of the online program supports the institution's
mission, values, and strategic plan. (2)
1.9. The institution has a governance structure to enable systematic and

continuous improvement related to the administration of online education. (1)
3.1. Guidelines regarding minimum requirements for course development,
design, and delivery of online instruction (such as course syllabus elements,
course materials, assessment strategies, faculty feedback) are followed. (2)
3.3. Instructional materials and course syllabi are reviewed periodically to ensure
they meet online course and program learning outcomes. (1)
3.5. A process is followed that ensures that permissions (Creative Commons,
Copyright, Fair Use, Public Domain, etc.) are in place for appropriate use of
online course materials. (2)
3.6. Course assignments and activities are reviewed periodically to ensure they
meet online course and program learning outcomes. (1)
3.8. There is consistency in course development for student retention and quality.

(1)

3.9. Course design promotes both faculty and student engagement. (2)
4.1. The online course includes a syllabus outlining course objectives, learning
outcomes, evaluation methods, books and supplies, technical and proctoring
requirements, and other related course information, making course requirements

transparent. (2)

4.3. Expectations for student assignment completion, grade policy, and faculty
response are clearly provided in the course syllabus. (2)
5.1. Student-to-student interaction and faculty-to-student interaction are essential
characteristics and are facilitated through a variety of ways. (1)
5.2. Feedback on student assignments and questions is constructive and
provided in a timely manner. (2)
7.5. Clear standards are established for faculty engagement and expectations
around online teaching (e.g., response time, contact information, etc.) (1)

9.2. A variety of data (academic and administrative information) are used to

regularly and frequently evaluate program effectiveness and to guide changes
toward continual improvement. (1)

53

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
3. Strengthen “departmental oversight via training for chairs and incorporation of
Distance issues into five year reviews”
Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 2, Part B, 2" Bullet Point, p. 38. (Priority A)
In keeping with the faculty’s responsibility for the design and delivery of curriculum,
many aspects of Distance instruction belong properly within the routine functioning of
the College’s academic departments and schools. To facilitate this, the Director of

Distance Learning will work with the Instructional Design staff to include training for

chairs in their faculty development workshops (see SPT 10, below) and with the
Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee to insure that programs’ Five Year
Reviews specifically include Distance offerings and issues. The indicators the
specification of this responsibility will directly impact include:
1.1. The institution has a governance structure to enable clear, effective, and
comprehensive decision making related to online education. (1)

1.5. The organizational structure of the online program supports the institution's
mission, values, and strategic plan. (2)
1.9. The institution has a governance structure to enable systematic and
continuous improvement related to the administration of online education. (1)
3.1. Guidelines regarding minimum requirements for course development,
design, and delivery of online instruction (such as course syllabus elements,
course materials, assessment strategies, faculty feedback) are followed. (2)

3.2. Course embedded technology actively supports the achievement of learning

outcomes and delivery of course content and superfluous use of technology is

minimized. (2)

3.3. Instructional materials and course syllabi are reviewed periodically to ensure
they meet online course and program learning outcomes. (1)
3.4. A course development process is followed that ensures courses are
designed so that students develop the necessary knowledge and skills to meet
measurable learning outcomes at the course and program level. (1)
3.5. A process is followed that ensures that permissions (Creative Commons,
Copyright, Fair Use, Public Domain, etc.) are in place for appropriate use of
online course materials. (2)
3.6. Course assignments and activities are reviewed periodically to ensure they
meet online course and program learning outcomes. (1)

54

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
5.1. Student-to-student interaction and faculty-to-student interaction are essential

characteristics and are facilitated through a variety of ways. (1)

5.2. Feedback on student assignments and questions is constructive and
provided in a timely manner. (2)

5.3. Students learn appropriate methods for effective research, including

assessment of the validity of resources and the ability to master resources in an
online environment. (2)
5.4. Students are provided access to library professionals and resources to help
locate, analyze, evaluate, synthesize, and ethically use a variety of information
resources. (2)
7.5. Clear standards are established for faculty engagement and expectations
around online teaching (e.g., response time, contact information, etc.) (1)
9.1. The program is assessed through an evaluation process that applies specific

established standards. (1)

9.2. A variety of data (academic and administrative information) are used to

regularly and frequently evaluate program effectiveness and to guide changes

toward continual improvement. (1)

9.3. Intended learning outcomes at the course and program level are reviewed

regularly to ensure alignment, clarity, utility, appropriateness, and effectiveness.

(2)

9.8. Course evaluations collect feedback on the effectiveness of instruction in

relation to faculty performance evaluations. (1)

9.9. A process is in place and followed for the institutional assessment of faculty

online teaching performance. (1)

4. Assess progress toward Strategic Goals
a) in general (Goal 4, Objective C, Strategy 1, 3 bullet point, p. 75, and Goal 4,
Objective D, Strategy 1, Item 8, p. 79; Priority A), and
b) the Distance Learning Program
Item 6, p. 78; Priority A)

in particular (Goal 4, Objective D, Strategy 1,

Ongoing institutional assessment and planning are emphasized in the Strategic Plan,
so this general process will include the aspects of the Strategic Plan and institutional
operations pertaining to Distance Learning. In addition, the Strategic Plan calls for

55

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
the specific assessment of Distance instruction as a unit, in keeping with established

College policy. The indicators these assessment activities directly relate to are:

1.1. The institution has a governance structure to enable clear, effective, and
comprehensive decision making related to online education. (1)
1.4: The institution has defined the strategic value of online learning to its
enterprise and to stakeholders. (1)
1.5. The organizational structure of the online program supports the institution's
mission, values, and strategic plan. (2)
1.6. The online program's strategic plan is reviewed for its continuing relevance,
and periodically improved and updated. (1)
1.7. The institution has a process for planning and resource allocation for the
online program, including financial resources, in accordance with strategic
planning. (1)
1.9. The institution has a governance structure to enable systematic and
continuous improvement related to the administration of online education. (1)
2.1. A documented technology plan that includes electronic security measures
(e.g., password protection, encryption, secure online or proctored exams, etc.) is
in place and operational to ensure quality, in accordance with established
standards and regulatory requirements. (2)
3.1. Guidelines regarding minimum

requirements for course development,

design, and delivery of online instruction (such as course syllabus elements,
course materials, assessment strategies, faculty feedback) are followed. (2)

3.2. Course embedded technology actively supports the achievement of learning
outcomes and delivery of course content and superfluous use of technology is
minimized. (2)
9.1. The program is assessed through an evaluation process that applies specific
established standards. (1)
9.2. A variety of data (academic and administrative information) are used to
regularly and frequently evaluate program effectiveness and to guide changes
toward continual improvement. (1)
9.4. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of support services for
faculty and students. (1)

56

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
9.9. A process is in place and followed for the institutional assessment of faculty
online teaching performance. (1)
Increase Support of the Distance Program
5. Hire at least one additional Instructional Designer
Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 2, Part D, 3'¢ bullet point, p. 39 and Personnel
Resources, p. 40 (Priority A);

Goal 2, Objective D, Strategy 2, Resources, p. 49 (Priority A).
While the campus has been well-served by our Instructional Technology and Design
team, having only one Instructional Designer has constrained our ability to expand
the range of services we can provide the faculty, students, and staff. Gaps that the
Institutional Readiness Assessment identified that additional instructional design
support will help close include:
1.2 The institution has policy and guidelines that confirm a student who registers
in an online course or program is the same student who participates in and
completes the course or program and receives academic credit. This is done by
verifying the identity of a student by using methods such as (a) a secure login
and pass code, (b) proctored examinations, or (c) other technologies and
practices that are effective in verifying student identity. (1)
1.8. The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation, including financial
resources, in order to effectively support the mission of online education. (2)

2.6. Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and use of
new technologies and skills. (2)

3.1. Guidelines regarding minimum requirements for course development,

design, and delivery of online instruction (such as course syllabus elements,
course materials, assessment strategies, faculty feedback) are followed. (2)
3.2. Course embedded technology actively supports the achievement of learning
outcomes and delivery of course content and superfluous use of technology is
minimized. (2)
3.4 A process is followed that ensures that permissions (Creative Commons,
Copyright, Fair Use, Public Domain, etc.) are in place for appropriate use of
online course materials. (1)
3.5. A process is followed that ensures that permissions (Creative Commons,
Copyright, Fair Use, Public Domain, etc.) are in place for appropriate use of
online course materials. (2)

57

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

3.7. Student-centered instruction is considered during the course-development
process. (2)
3.8. There is consistency in course development for student retention and quality.

(1)

3.9. Course design promotes both faculty and student engagement. (2)

3.10. A process is followed for evaluating the effectiveness of current and

emerging technologies to support the achievement of learning outcomes and

delivery of course content. (1)

3.11. Usability tests are conducted and applied, and recommendations based on

Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAGs) are incorporated. (1)

4.1. The online course includes a syllabus outlining course objectives, learning
outcomes, evaluation methods, books and supplies, technical and proctoring

requirements, and other related course information, making course requirements
transparent. (2)

4.3. Expectations for student assignment completion, grade policy, and faculty
response are clearly provided in the course syllabus. (2)
4.5. Instructional materials are accessible to the student, easy to use, and may
be accessed by multiple operating systems and applications. (2)

4.6. Instructional materials are easily accessed by students with disabilities via

alternative instructional strategies and/or referral to special institutional
resources. (1)

4.7. Opportunities/tools are provided to encourage student-student collaboration
(i.e., web conferencing, instant messaging, etc.) if appropriate. (2)
4.8. Rules and standards for appropriate online student behavior are provided
within the course. (2)

5.1. Student-to-student interaction and faculty-to-student interaction are essential
characteristics and are facilitated through a variety of ways. (1)
5.5 Instructors use specific strategies to create a presence in the course. (2)
6.1 An Online Accounting Student Center has been put into place, which brought
us up a level, to 2. Additional possible enhancements are discussed in the body
of this document. (1)

58

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
7.3 Faculty receive training and materials related to Fair Use, plagiarism, and
other relevant legal and ethical concepts. (2)
7.4. Faculty are provided on-going professional development related to online
teaching and learning. (2)
7.6. Faculty are informed about emerging technologies and the selection and use
of new tools. (1)
8.1. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program
to determine if they possess the self-motivation and commitment to learn online.

(0)

8.2. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program
to determine if they have access to the minimal technology skills and equipment
required by the course design. (1)
8.3 Before starting an online program, students receive (or have access to)
information about program, including admission requirements, tuition and fees,
books and supplies, technical and proctoring requirements, and student support
services. (2)
8.5. Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have access to
appropriate technical assistance and technical support staff. (2)
8.6. Support personnel are available to address student questions, problems,
bug reporting, and complaints. (2)
8.7. Students have access to effective academic, personal, and career
counseling. (2)
8.8. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are provided in order to respond to
students’ most common questions regarding online education. (2)
8.13. Efforts are made to engage students with the program and institution in
order to minimize feelings of isolation and alienation. (1)
8.14. The institution provides guidance/tutorials for students in the use of all
forms of technologies used for course delivery. (1)
9.7 Program demonstrates compliance and review of accessibility standards
(Section 508, etc.)
9.8 Course evaluations collect feedback on the effectiveness of instruction in

relation to faculty performance evaluations. (1)

59

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
6. Increase Awareness

of Existing and Future Technology Resources

a) in general (Goal 4, Objective E, Strategy 2, 2°¢ bullet point, p. 81; Priority A),
and
b) Instructional Technology in particular (Goal 2, Objective D, Strategy 2, 15
bullet point, p. 48; Priority A),
by improving communication about them to students, faculty and staff (Goal
4, Objective E, Strategy 4, 4° bullet point, p. 83; Priority A).
Wider awareness of the technology resources that are and can be available on
campus will enhance its integration into the teaching and learning processes.
Indicators that this strategic commitment will impact include:
1.4. The institution has defined the strategic value of online learning to its
enterprise and to stakeholders. (1)
2.6. Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and use of
new technologies and skills. (2)
4.7. Opportunities/tools are provided to encourage student-student collaboration
(i.e., web conferencing, instant messaging, etc.) if appropriate. (2)
7.6. Faculty are informed about emerging technologies and the selection and use

of new tools. (1)

6.1. Students should be provided a way to interact with other students in an

online community (outside the course). (1)

8.4. Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have access to
training and information they will need to secure required materials through
electronic databases, interlibrary loans, government archives, new services and
other sources. (2)
8.7. Students have access to effective academic, personal, and career
counseling. (2)
8.13. Efforts are made to engage students with the program and institution in
order to minimize feelings of isolation and alienation. (1)
7. Expand Distance Offerings
a. for post-traditional students via the School of Professional Studies (Goal 1,
Objective B, Strategy 2, p. 11; Priority A);

60

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

b. as part of the overall assessment of existing programs (the new online MS in
Accounting, in particular: Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 1, Part B, p. 35) and
consideration of possible future programs (Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 1,
Part C, p. 36; Priority A);

c. in conjunction with the promotion of students’ digital literacy (see Strategic

Plan Topic 12, below) (Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 2, Part B, p. 38; Priority

A);

d. as a way to “develop new, sustainable revenue streams” by developing and

offering “more online courses and degrees” (Goal 4, Objective A, Strategy 4,
Item 4, pp. 70-1; Priority A)

The Strategic Plan’s highlighting of the College’s interest in expanding Distance
offerings will enhance these in ways related to a number of indicators:

1.4. The institution has defined the strategic value of online learning to its

enterprise and to stakeholders. (1)

1.7. The institution has a process for planning and resource allocation for the

online program, including financial resources, in accordance with strategic
planning. (1)

1.8. The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation, including financial
resources, in order to effectively support the mission of online education. (2)

8. “Execute the implementation of SUNY OW's Open SUNY Institutional
Readiness Assessment”

Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 2, Item B, Outcome/Action, pp. 37-8. (Priority A)
As presented in this report, the Strategic Plan commits the College to implement
most of the specific results of the Institutional Readiness Assessment process. This
provision reinforces those commitments, and in the process addresses one index
specifically:
1.4. The institution has defined the strategic value of online learning to its
enterprise and to stakeholders. (1)

lt also provides a basis to address those few indicators that are not addressed by the

Strategic plan specifically:

2.2 The technology delivery systems are highly reliable and operable with
measurable standards being utilized such as system downtime tracking or task
benchmarking. (2)

61

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
2.5. The institution has established a contingency plan for the continuance of
data centers and support services in the event of prolonged service disruption.

(2)

9.5. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of student retention in
online courses and programs. (0)
9.6. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of recruitment
practices. (0)
9.10. A process is in place and followed for the assessment of stakeholder (e.g.,
learners, faculty, staff) satisfaction with the online program. (0)
9.11. Course evaluations collect student feedback on quality of online course
materials. (0)

These efforts will be initiated by the CIO (2.2 and 2.5) or the Director of Distance
Learning (9.5, 9.6, 9.10, 9.11).
. “Review on-line materials and ensure they are ADA compliant” to “assure
accessibility” of “all online resources”
Goal 3, Objective B, Strategy 1, 4°" bullet point, p. 57, and Outcomes
Actions, item g, p. 58 (Priority A)

and

The Strategic Plan commits the College to ensure that all online resources are
accessible, including those related to online courses and programs.

the following indicators:

This will impact

3.11. Usability tests are conducted and applied, and recommendations based on

Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAGs) are incorporated. (1)

4.5. Instructional materials are accessible to the student, easy to use, and may
be accessed by multiple operating systems and applications. (2)

4.6. Instructional materials are easily accessed by students with disabilities via
alternative instructional strategies and/or referral to special institutional
resources. (1)

8.10. Policy, processes, and resources are in place to support students with

disabilities. (2)

9.7. Program demonstrates compliance and review of accessibility standards
(Section 508, etc.) (1)

62

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
Promote Faculty Development in Online Pedagogy and Technology
10. Support Faculty Professional Development by
a) providing workshops on effective teaching to support enhancements to
teaching technology and skills (Goal 2, Objective A, Strategy 5, pp. 30-1;
Priority A),
b) including online, traditional, hybrid, and active learning formats (Goal 2,
Objective B, Strategy 2, Part D, 2" bullet point, p. 39; Priority A)

The Strategic Plan recognizes that faculty competence and comfort with teaching

technologies is crucial in this day and age, which will enhance Distance offerings in
a variety of ways:
3.2. Course embedded technology actively supports the achievement of learning

outcomes and delivery of course content and superfluous use of technology is
minimized. (2)

3.7. Student-centered instruction is considered during the course-development

process.

3.8. There is consistency in course development for student retention and quality.

(1)

3.9. Course design promotes both faculty and student engagement. (2)
3.11. Usability tests are conducted and applied, and recommendations based on
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAGs) are incorporated. (1)
4.1. The online course includes a syllabus outlining course objectives, learning
outcomes, evaluation methods, books and supplies, technical and proctoring
requirements, and other related course information, making course requirements
transparent. (2)
4.3. Expectations for student assignment completion, grade policy, and faculty
response are clearly provided in the course syllabus. (2)
4.5. Instructional materials are accessible to the student, easy to use, and may
be accessed by multiple operating systems and applications. (2)

4.6. Instructional materials are easily accessed by students with disabilities via
alternative instructional strategies and/or referral to special institutional
resources. (1)

63

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
4.7. Opportunities/tools are provided to encourage student-student collaboration
(i.e., web conferencing, instant messaging, etc.) if appropriate. (2)
4.8. Rules and standards for appropriate online student behavior are provided
within the course. (2)
5.5. Instructors use specific strategies to create a presence in the course. (2)
7.3. Faculty receive training and materials related to Fair Use, plagiarism, and
other relevant legal and ethical concepts. (2)
7.4, Faculty are provided on-going professional development related to online
teaching and learning. (2)
11. “Provide opportunities for departments and individual faculty to gain access
to emerging technologies”
Goal 2, Objective D, Strategy 2, 2" bullet point, p. 48.

(Priority A)

Faculty competence and comfort with teaching technologies will mean little if they do
not have access to them, so this strategic commitment will address the following
indicators:

2.6. Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and use of
new technologies and skills. (2)
7.6. Faculty are informed about emerging technologies and the selection and use

of new tools. (1)

Enhance the Student Online Experience
12. Promote Students’ Digital Literacy, Access to Technology, and Online
Success
Goal 1, Objective A, Strategy 8, p. 5 (Priority C);

Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 2, Part A, 6" bullet point, p. 37 (Priority A);
Goal 2, Objective D, Strategy 2, 3° bullet point, p. 48 (Priority A);
Goal 2, Objective D, Strategy 3, p. 49 (Priority A)
Enhancing our support for students is a strong priority in the Strategic Plan,
including efforts to promote Digital Literacy. These will enhance the College’s
performance in the following areas:

64

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan
1.8. The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation, including financial

resources, in order to effectively support the mission of online education. (2)

2.6. Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and use of
new technologies and skills. (2)
4.7. Opportunities/tools are provided to encourage student-student collaboration
(i.e., web conferencing, instant messaging, etc.) if appropriate. (2)
4.8 Rules and standards for appropriate online student behavior are provided
within the course. (2)
5.3. Students learn appropriate methods for effective research, including

assessment of the validity of resources and the ability to master resources in an
online environment. (2)
5.4. Students are provided access to library professionals and resources to help
locate, analyze, evaluate, synthesize, and ethically use a variety of information
resources. (2)

6.1. Students should be provided a way to interact with other students in an
online community (outside the course). (1)
8.1. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program
to determine if they possess the self-motivation and commitment to learn online.

(0)

8.2. Before starting an online program, students are advised about the program
to determine if they have access to the minimal technology skills and equipment

required by the course design. (1)

8.4. Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have access to
training and information they will need to secure required materials through
electronic databases, interlibrary loans, government archives, new services and
other sources. (2)
8.5. Throughout the duration of the course/program, students have access to
appropriate technical assistance and technical support staff. (2)
8.6. Support personnel are available to address student questions, problems,
bug reporting, and complaints. (2)
8.13. Efforts are made to engage students with the program and institution in
order to minimize feelings of isolation and alienation. (1)

8.14. The institution provides guidance/tutorials for students in the use of all

forms of technologies used for course delivery. (1)

65

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

13. Enhance Online Student Support by
a) using predictive analytics approach in advising, notifications, early
warnings, tutoring, “at-risk” policies [includes email warnings, etc.] (Goal
1, Objective A, Strategy 6, p. 4, Priority A),
b) hiring a Career Planning and Development Technology Specialist (parttime) to maintain databases, promote services via social/print media. (4th
priority) (Goal 1, Objective C, Strategy 1, pp. 20, 22, Priority A), and

c) Keeping funding for online tutoring (Goal 2, Objective B, Strategy 3, Part B,
7

bullet point and Outcome/Action,

p. 41, Priority B).

1.8. The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation, including financial
resources, in order to effectively support the mission of online education. (2)

8.7. Students have access to effective academic, personal, and career

counseling. (2)

8.15: Tutoring is available as a learning resource. (2)
14. Enhance Online Access to Administrative Functions by
a) implementing “administrative technologies to provide leading edge student

‘services, including to online students” (Goal 4, Objective E, Strategy 2, 5"
bullet point, p. 81, Priority A, and Strategy 4, 1S‘ bullet point, p. 83; Priority

A),

b) facilitating “access to College systems from all digital devices” (Goal 4,
Objective E, Strategy 3, 1S* bullet point, p. 82, Priority A, and Strategy 5, 4'"
bullet point, p. 84; Priority A).
1.8. The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation, including financial
resources, in order to effectively support the mission of online education. (2)
2.1. A documented technology plan that includes electronic security measures
(e.g., password protection, encryption, secure online or proctored exams, etc.) is
in place and operational to ensure quality, in accordance with established

standards and regulatory requiremenis. (2)
2.6.

Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and use of

new technologies and skills. (2)

66

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

8.11. Students have access to required course materials in print and/or digital

format, such as ISBN numbers for textbooks, book suppliers, and delivery modes
prior to course enrollment.
8.12. Program demonstrates a student-centered focus rather than trying to fit
existing on-campus services to the online student. (2)
8.16. Students are provided clear information for enlisting help from the

institution. (2)

15. Promote Online Community by creating a next generation College website

(Goal 4, Objective B, Strategy 9, Outcome and Actions, p. 74, Priority B) by
a) designing and launching a new homepage and improving academic
department and degree pages (Goal 4, Objective B, Strategy 8, p. 74;

Priority B) and

b) reviewing website to see where best to display academic and co-curricular
annual calendar of events and related information. (Goal 2, Objective C,
Strategy 3, Outcome/Action, p. 45; Priority B)

While these are not specifically targeted at creating online community and all are
relatively low priority items (Priority B), they provide a basis on which to enhance
online students’ ability to get information about their program and the College
more generally via improved department and degree pages, and the general life

of the college via information about events and co-curricular activities.

8.3. Before starting an online program, students receive (or have access to)
information about program, including admission requirements, tuition and fees,

books and supplies, technical and proctoring requirements, and student support
services. (2)
8.13. Efforts are made to engage students with the program and institution in
order to minimize feelings of isolation and alienation. (1)

8.16. Students are provided clear information for enlisting help from the

institution. (2)

These specific references will be supplemented by appeals to the Strategic

Plan’s general call to implement the results of the Institutional Readiness
Assessment (Strategic Plan Topic 8, above) to promote online community
beyond the commitments of the Strategic Plan’s specific provisions.

Maintain and Upgrade Technological Infrastructure
16. Create a Hybrid Production Studio

67

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

Goal 2, Objective E, Strategy 2, p. 51. (Priority B)

2.6. Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the development and use of
new technologies and skills. (2)

17. Enhance Online Identity Verification by
a) investigating means to enhance student identity verification for online

courses (Goal 2, Objective D, Strategy 1, 3 Bullet point, p. 47; Priority A)

and

b) balancing openness, access, agility and security of data and systems
(Goal 4, Objective E, Strategy 5, 15‘ bullet point, p. 84; Priority A)

1.2. The institution has policy and guidelines that confirm a student who
registers in an online course or program is the same student who participates in
and completes the course or program and receives academic credit. This is

done by verifying the identity of a student by using methods such as (a) a
secure login and pass code, (b) proctored examinations, or (c) other

technologies and practices that are effective in verifying student identity. (1)
1.8. The institution demonstrates sufficient resource allocation, including

financial resources, in order to effectively support the mission of online

education. (2)

2.1. A documented technology plan that includes electronic security measures
(e.g., password protection, encryption, secure online or proctored exams, etc.) is

in place and operational to ensure quality, in accordance with established
standards and regulatory requirements. (2)

18. Maintain and staff essential facilities that support majors, student life, and

applied learning

Goal 1, Objective A, Strategy 7, p. 5. (Priority A)

This part of the Strategic Plan relates to Index 2.4, which was rated a 3.
19. Develop an annual survey to assess use of available Instructional Technology
in all course delivery modes, e.g. face-to-face, hybrid, online
Goal 2, Objective D, Strategy 1, 2"? bullet point, p. 47. (Priority A)
1.7. The institution has a process for planning and resource allocation for the
online program, including financial resources, in accordance with strategic

planning. (1)

68

SUNY Old Westbury - Online Institutional Readiness Implementation Plan

3.10. A process is followed for evaluating the effectiveness of current and
emerging technologies to support the achievement of learning outcomes and
delivery of course content. (1)
20. Continuously assess non-academic technology needs, starting with current
inventory (A) via annual survey of all constituencies
Goal 4, Objective E, Strategy 1, p. 80 (Priority A)
As the College’s online programs grow, starting with the new online MS in
Accounting, online students will become an increasingly important constituency, and

the technology needed to promote student-to-student and student-to-institution
engagement beyond the immediate instructional context will grow accordingly. The
indicators that this will particularly impact include:
1.7. The institution has a process for planning and resource allocation for the

online program, including financial resources, in accordance with strategic
planning. (1)

6.1. Students should be provided a way to interact with other students in an
online community (outside the course). (1)
8.13. Efforts are made to engage students with the program and institution in

order to minimize feelings of isolation and alienation. (1)

69

Appendix D: Implementation Plan Dashboard
The following table is designed to be used electronically to track when enhancements to indicators are judged to have
increased its rating by a level. A copy will be maintained online by the Director of Distance Learning, who will record
actions addressing each indicator and increases the ratings in consultation with the Instructional Design Staff and the

Joint Administrative/Faculty Governance committee.

Open SUNY Insitutional Readiness Assessment Implementation Plan Dashboard
Key:

Initial Ratings are color coded to conform to urgency (from
most urgent to least: Red, Yellow
;
).

DDL = Director of Distance Learning
DLGC = Distance Learning Governance Committee

Enhancements already Done are underlined, while those
planned are not.

IDs = Instructional Designers
EIT = Electronic & Information Technology

Enhancements to urgent items (rated 0 or 1) are in Bold; those | ITS = Information Technology Services
for less urgent items (rated 2 or 3) are not.
CAP = Curriculum and Academic Planning committee
Items we have risen a full level for since we did our initial
SPAAR = Strategic Plan Committee
ratings have been give new colored backgrounds. Further:
e
Items we have gotten a significant start raising since the initial ratings are given a .3 boost in the revised ratings,

e
* NOTE:

and 1s are color coded in weaker yellow to show enhancement is under way.
Items we are near to raising by a full level since the initial ratings are given a .7 boost in the revised ratings, and

1s are color coded in light orange to show level 2 being approached.

Participants mentioned here reflect current activities as-of September,

identical to the involvment discussed in the body of the Plan above.
Indicators
Rte M a ays4
8.1

Initial Rating

| Before starting an online program, students are advised
about the program to determine if they possess the self-

motivation and commitment to learn online.

Participants”

DDL, IDs,
Online

Program

2019, and while connected to are not always

Enhancements

Done/To Do

Revised

DDL and expanded ID staff will work
with Communications office and IT to

create links from the College's public

Heads,
website and the Portal to Open
College
SUNY's SmarterMeasure selfCommunicatio | assessement tool. DDL will work with
ns Office, ITS, | First Year program to encourage it to

Advising and
Enrollment
Services

foster Blackboard literacy in the
program. The DDL will work with
online program heads, Enrollment
Services, the Transfer office, and

Academic Advising to incorporate
consideration of online issues into
advising of prospective Online
9.5 | Aprocess is in place and followed for the assessment of
student retention in online courses and programs.

DDL,
Institutional
Research

9.6 | Aprocess is in place and followed for the assessment of

DDL,

recruitment practices.

Admissions

9.10 | A process is in place and followed for the assessment of

DDL

stakeholder (e.g., learners, faculty, staff) satisfaction
with the online program.

students.

DDL will work with Institutional
research to generate data, and DDL
will incorporate it into administrative
assessment of the Distance program.
DDL will work with Enrollment
Services to put this assessment into

place, and then integrate it with the
administrative assessment of the
Distance program.

The Open SUNY Student Survey will
be systematically reviewed for

student feedback, and a comparable
instrument will be designed and

implemented for faculty and staff. A
feedback loop will be implemented to
act on the data.

1. Institutional Support
1.1 | The institution has a governance structure to enable
clear, effective, and comprehensive decision making

Provost, DDL,
Faculty

related to online education.

Governance,

| DDL position has been regularized;
next steps are creating Governance

Committee and regularizing program

DLGC, SPAAR_ | responsibility for Online offerings.
Implementation of SPAAR process will
complete the process.
DDL, IDs, ITS
Piloting Proctor U is the first step.
Next will be to implement it or
something similar. The crucial
question is how will we pay for it

1.2. | The institution has policy and guidelines that confirm a
student who registers in an online course or program is

the same student who participates in and completes the
course or program and receives academic credit. This is
done by verifying the identity of a student by using
methods such as (a) a secure login and pass code, (b)

beyond the PIF grant.

71

ae

1.3

proctored examinations, or (c) other technologies and

practices that are effective in verifying student identity.
1.4 | The institution has defined the strategic value of online
learning to its enterprise and to stakeholders.

1.5

DDL, Provost

increased level. Conducting the
Enrollment Roundtable and achieving

Open SUNY+ status will be the next
steps.

The organizational structure of the online program
supports the institution's mission, values, and strategic

Provost, DDL, | Next steps are creating the Distance
DLGC, SPAAR | Learning Goverance Committee,

The online program's strategic plan is reviewed for its

DDL, DLGC,

SPAAR process.
This can be done by DDL and DLGC

SPAAR,

SPAAR committee will be responsible

plan.
1.6

formally increasing program
responsibility, and implementing the

continuing relevance, and periodically improved and
updated.

SPAAR

1.7. | The institution has a process for planning and resource
allocation for the online program, including financial

| The institution demonstrates sufficient resource

allocation, including financial resources, in order to
effectively support the mission of online education.

systematic and continuous improvement related to the
administration of online education.

planning, coordinating with Provost
and DDL for Distance issues.

Provost,

The impact of ending the Course

DDL, DLGC,

course offerings decline.
The Administrative Assessment

Cabinet,
SPAAR

1.9 | The institution has a governance structure to enable

SPAAR

Development Stipend program will be
monitored to determine if Distance

2

process that has been implemented
has created a mechanism for this.
Implementation of the DLGC and the

SPAAR process will increase it
another level.

2. Technology Support
2.1

for an increase of 1 level;
implementatino of SPAAR process will
increase it by another.

Provost, DDL | to monitoring and updating strategic

resources, in accordance with strategic planning.

1.8.

| Incorporation of online learning in
the Strategic Plan yielded the

A documented technology plan that includes electronic

ITS

security measures (e.g., password protection, encryption,
secure online or proctored exams, etc.) is in place and
operational to ensure quality, in accordance with

Piloting of Proctor U is a first step to
enhancing online ID verification and

exam proctoring.

Full implementation

of this plus creation of a documented

established standards and regulatory requirements.

IT plan will bring us to a 3.

72

2.3

2.2 | The technology delivery systems are highly reliable and
operable with measurable standards being utilized such
as system downtime tracking or task benchmarking.
2.5 | The institution has established a contingency plan for the
continuance of data centers and support services in the
event of prolonged service disruption.
2.6 | Faculty, staff, and students are supported in the
development and use of new technologies and skills.

ITS

Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.

ITS

Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.

ITS, IDs

investigating and publicizing other new
technologies and skills.

3. Course Development and Instructional Design
3.1. | Guidelines regarding minimum requirements for course
development, design, and delivery of online instruction
(such as course syllabus elements, course materials,
assessment strategies, faculty feedback) are followed.

IDs, DLGC,
Programs

3.2

IDs, Programs

DLGC will deliberate on this with the
advice of the ID staff and promulgate
any formal policies it deems necessary,
and faculty and programs will report

on their conformity to them in 5 year

Course embedded technology actively supports the
achievement of learning outcomes and delivery of course
content and superfluous use of technology is minimized.

3.3 | Instructional materials and course syllabi are reviewed

DLGC,

periodically to ensure they meet online course and
program learning outcomes.

reviews.
| Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.

DLGC will work with CAP to explicity

Programs, CAP | incorporate online courses into 5
year review process.

3.4 | Acourse development process is followed that ensures

IDs, Programs, | IDs and programs will work to

courses are designed so that students develop the

Academic

necessary knowledge and skills to meet measurable
learning outcomes at the course and program level.

Assessment,
CAP

3.5 | Aprocess is followed that ensures that permissions

Library, IDs,

etc.) are in place for appropriate use of online course
materials.
3.6 | Course assignments and activities are reviewed

Programs, CAP

(Creative Commons,

Implementation of Panopto video

system has signficantly enhanced
course presentation already. Recently
hired second Instructional Designer
should enable us to go up a level by

Copyright, Fair Use, Public Domain,

DLGC,

DGLC,

periodically to ensure they meet online course and
program learning outcomes.

Programs

73

enhance course development in

response to needs revealed by
assessments of student learning
outcomes.

Possible enhancements are discussed in

the body of this document.

DLGC will work with CAP to explicity

incorporate online courses into 5
year review process; programs will
then implement.

2.7

3.7.

| Student-centered instruction is considered during the
course-development process.
3.8 | There is consistency in course development for student
retention and quality.

IDs, Programs | Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.
DLGC, IDs
Recently hired second Instructional
Designer should enable us to offer
workshops to faculty on this (1

3.9 | Course design promotes both faculty and student
engagement.

DLGC, IDs,
Programs

3.10 | A process is followed for evaluating the effectiveness of

IDs, DDL,

current and emerging technologies to support the

achievement of learning outcomes and delivery of course
content.
3.11 | Usability tests are conducted and applied, and
recommendations based on Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines (WCAGs) are incorporated.

increase), DLGC will deliberate and
promulgate formal policies if it
deems them necessary and
appropriate (2nd increase).
Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.
Possible enhancements in the body of

DLGC

this document.

IDs, Faculty,

Ally has been activated this term and | 2

DLGC, CAP,
EIT

be aware of how accessible their
courses are and what needs

Programs,

workshops are planned so faculty will

improvement in them.

Enhancement

to 3 will come when systematic
review and correction process is
implemented.

4. Course Structure

4.1 | The online course includes a syllabus outlining course

DLGC, IDs,

4.3 | Expectations for student assignment completion, grade

DLGC, IDs,

objectives, learning outcomes, evaluation methods,
books and supplies, technical and proctoring
requirements, and other related course information,
making course requirements transparent.

45

1.3

Faculty,
Programs, CAP

policy, and faculty response are clearly provided in the
course syllabus.
Instructional materials are accessible to the student, easy

Faculty,
Programs, CAP
DLGC, IDs,

to use, and may be accessed by multiple operating
systems and applications.

Faculty,
Programs,
CAP, ITS

74

Possible enhancements are discussed in

the body of this document.

Possible enhancements are discussed in

the body of this document.

Possible enhancements are discussed in

the body of this document.

4.6 | Instructional materials are easily accessed by students
with disabilities via alternative instructional strategies
and/or referral to special institutional resources.

IDs, Faculty,
Programs,
CAP, EIT

Impelmentation of Ally will make
manifest accessibility needs;
enhanced Instructional Design staff

will enable us to offer workshops to

faculty on this.

CAP and programs

will need to incorporate this into 5

4.7 | Opportunities/tools are provided to encourage student-

DLGC, IDs,

student collaboration (i.e., web conferencing, instant

year reviews.

Possible enhancements are discussed in

Faculty,

the body of this document.

DLGC, IDs,
Faculty,
Programs, CAP

Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.

5.1 | Student-to-student interaction and faculty-to-student
interaction are essential characteristics and are
facilitated through a variety of ways.

IDs, DLGC,
Programs

5.2. | Feedback on student assignments and questions is

DLGC,

Enhanced Instructional Design staff
will enable us to offer workshops to
faculty on this; DLGC will promulgate
formal policies if it deems them
necessary.
Possible enhancements are discussed in

5.3.

Programs

4.8

messaging, etc.) if appropriate.

Programs, CAP

| Rules and standards for appropriate online student
behaviour are provided within the course.

5. Teaching and Learning

constructive and provided in a timely manner.

Programs

| Students learn appropriate methods for effective
research, including assessment of the validity of
resources and the ability to master resources in an online
environment.

5.4. | Students are provided access to library professionals and
resources to help locate, analyze, evaluate, synthesize,
and ethically use a variety of information resources.
5.5
Instructors use specific strategies to create a presence in
the course.

6.1 | Students should be provided a way to interact with other
students in an online community (outside the course).

Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.
Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.

DLGC, IDs

Possible enhancements making use of
enhanced ID staff are in the body of
this document.

Program

An Online Accounting Student Center

Directors, IDs

will be in place by the end of Sept, at
which point we will be at 2.
Additional possible enhancements are
discussed in the body of this
document.

75

Ars

the body of this document.

Programs,
library

6. Student Social Engagement

paar

2.3

7. Faculty Support

7.3 | Faculty receive training and materials related to Fair Use,
plagiarism, and other relevant legal and ethical concepts.

7.5 | Clear standards are established for faculty engagement
and expectations around online teaching (e.g., response

See 3.5 above | Possible enhancements making use of | 2.3
enhanced ID staff are in the body of
this document.
IDs
Enhanced Instructional Design staff
2.3
should enable us to offer increased
workshops in concert with the TLRC
and CETL
DLGC,
DLGC will deliberate and promulgate
Programs
any formal policies it deems

7.6

Faculty are informed about emerging technologies and
the selection and use of new tools.

IDs

Before starting an online program, students are advised

Same as 8.1

Resources used to address 8.1,

the course design.
Before starting an online program, students receive (or

section)
DDL,

assess their technology skills
Strategic Plan calls for the College

ns Office,

information along these lines more

7.4 | Faculty are provided on-going professional development
related to online teaching and learning.

time, contact information, etc.)

8. Student Support
8.2

8.3

about the program to determine if they have access to
the minimal technology skills and equipment required by
have access to) information about program, including

admission requirements, tuition and fees, books and

supplies, technical and proctoring requirements, and
student support services.
8.4 | Throughout the duration of the course/program, students
have access to training and information they will need to

secure required materials through electronic databases,

interlibrary loans, government archives, new services and
other sources.

8.5 | Throughout the duration of the course/program, students
have access to appropriate technical assistance and
technical support staff.

necessary, and faculty and programs
will report on their conformity to
them in 5 year reviews.
Possible enhancements in the body of
this document.

(above,
students’ psychological readiness for
Critical Issues | online education, will be used to
Communicatio | website to be enhanced with
Program
heads,
Programs
Faculty,

programs

IT, IDs

readily accessible and for
administrative systems to be upgraded.
This is a faculty responsibility within
courses and programs.

Student Help is embedded in course
shells, and the enhanced ID staff will
provide more resources for this kind of

support, but Tech Support calls are a

concern: can we support students with
technical problems remotely?

8.6 | Support personnel are available to address student
questions, problems, bug reporting, and complaints.

IDs, Program
heads

Enhanced Instructional Design staff will | 2.3
enable us to support students more

8.7. | Students have access to effective academic, personal,

Programs,

body of document).
Possible enhancements are discussed in

and career counseling.

8.8

Program

heads, DDL,
IDs
IDs

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are provided in order
to respond to students’ most common questions regarding

online education.
8.10 | Policy, processes, and resources are in place to support
students with disabilities.

EIT Officer

extensively, perhaps through
development of a concierge model (see

the body of this document.

Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.

Complying with SUNY mandated EIT
(Electronic and Information

2.3

Technology) Access Policy will push us

8.11 | Students have access to required course materials in print
and/or digital format, such as ISBN numbers for
textbooks, book suppliers, and delivery modes prior to
course enrollment.
8.12 | Program demonstrates a student-centered focus rather

DLGC

DDL

than trying to fit existing on-campus services to the
online student.
8.13 | Efforts are made to engage students with the program
and institution in order to minimize feelings of isolation
and alienation.

IDs, Program
heads

8.14 | The institution provides guidance/tutorials for students in

IDs

the use of all forms of technologies used for course
delivery.

8.15 | Tutoring is available as a learning resource.

DDL

8.16 | Students are provided clear information for enlisting help

See 8.5 and

from the institution.

8.14 above

77

up a level.
DLGC should consider and enact a
policy to help move faculty to put
this information on the Bookstore's
website in a timely fashion.
Possible enhancements are discussed in
the body of this document.

Online programs will have program
Student Centers for their students.
First one (MS Accounting) should be

online in September; other ideas in
body of document. See 6.1, above.
IDs are creating Student Help area

with enhanced materials for students
College contracts for online tutoring,
but few students use it despite various
publicity campaigns. Perhaps a
focused push on online students would
prompt increased use.

8.5, Technical Support, and 8.14,

Student Center already help; online

2.3

webinar office hours may be added
with ID support

9. Evaluation and Assessment
9.1

eae

| The program is assessed through an evaluation process

DDL,

that applies specific established standards.

9.2 | Avariety of data
information) are
evaluate program
toward continual

Administrative Assessment, and will

Programs

AY 2019-20, at which point it will

Director,

do its 5 year academic assessment in
achieve 2.

Implementation of SPAAR

process will bring it to 3.
DDL, SPAAR
DDL does administrative assessment;
committee,
will work with academic assessment
Programs
data and SPAAR committee to
implement more frequent assessment
and planning
Programs, CAP | More systematic inclusion of Distance
offerings in Program reviews as called
for by the Strategic Plan will enhance.

(academic and administrative
used to regularly and frequently
effectiveness and to guide changes
improvement.

9.3 | Intended learning outcomes at the course and program
level are reviewed regularly to ensure alignment, clarity,
utility, appropriateness, and effectiveness.

9.4 | Aprocess is in place and followed for the assessment of

DDL, SPAAR

support services for faculty and students.

9.7.

Distance Program does annual

Assessment

|

DDL will work with Division heads and
Directors to systematically include

online student services in

| Program demonstrates compliance and review of

IDs, EIT

accessibility standards (Section 508, etc.)

officer

|

9.8 | Course evaluations collect feedback on the effectiveness
of instruction in relation to faculty performance
evaluations.

|

9.9 | Aprocess is in place and followed for the institutional

assessment of faculty online teaching performance.
9.11 | Course evaluations collect student feedback on quality of
online course materials.

IDs

course materials. It specifically addresses online course

materials, and is publicly visible online.

78

is a significant step; implementation
of EIT Accessibility per SUNY mandate

will bring us up a full level.
Implementation of Blue Student
Evaluation system is a substantial
improvement.

DDL, Programs | Distance Program will do its 5 year

DDL, DLGC

1.3. | The institution has a policy for intellectual property of

Administrative Assessments. SPAAR
process will further enhance this.
Implementation of Ally in Blackboard | 1.7

assessment in AY 2019-20,
DDL and DLGC will work with
Academic Affairs to add question on
this into Student Course Evaluations

|

|

eran

METS

|

2.3

A centralized system provides support for building and
maintaining the online education infrastructure.

2.4

The course delivery technology is considered a mission

2.7

Whether the institution maintains local data centers
(servers), and/or contracts for outsourced, hosted
services or cloud services, those systems are administered
in compliance with established data management
practices such as the Information Technology Service

critical enterprise system and supported as such.

Management (ITSM) standards which includes appropriate
power protection, backup solutions, and disaster recovery

plans, etc.

Deke

4.2

4.4

Curriculum development is a core responsibility for

faculty (i.e., faculty should be involved in either the
development or the decision making for the online
curriculum choices).
The course structure ensures that all online students,
regardless of location, have access to library/learning
resources that adequately support online courses.

Links or explanations of technical support are available in
the course (i.e., each course provides suggested solutions

to potential technical issues and/or links for technical

7.1
7.2

8.9

assistance).
Technical assistance is provided for faculty during online

course development and online teaching.

The institution ensures faculty receive training,
assistance, and support to prepare for course

development and teaching online.
Students are provided non-instructional support services
such as admission, financial assistance,

registration/enrollment, etc.

79