Memo to: William P. Kimmins, Assistant to the President for Administration
From: The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate
Re: START UP NY
Date: February 9, 2016

The Executive Committee has reviewed the RFP for START-UP New York. It is
our understanding that the prospective START-UP New York businesses cannot
compete against any existing businesses. The focus of the search will be
for businesses to relocate to Long Island from out of state. With that in
mind, we also see that you have targeted: Cyber & Homeland Security,
Wireless & Information Technology, Software Development, Biotechnology, and
we notice that Environmental Sciences and Sustainability Industries, is an
“as well”, not a first listed category for application. The proposal states
that to be an eligible start-up company, any recipient must align with our
mission, and augment the educational opportunities for our students for
employment, and experiential learning, and research opportunities for the
faculty and to enhance the image of the college.

Having read this document our concerns are that the Faculty Senate or its
designees were not involved in this process. Decisions appear to have been
made by the administration without the inclusion of shared governance.

START- UP NY is required to meet the specific educational mission of each
SUNY College and provide direct academic outcomes to students. The design
and delivery of the curriculum, is the purview of the Faculty by Board of
Trustees Policy . The educational mission provides direction for that
design. The lack of systematic consultation with the Faculty in the design
of the RFP, the structure and operation of the future committee to
determine best fit, and the timetable for the process provides serious
challenge to the required shared involvement of representative faculty from
the outset.  In addition, we were never consulted about the College’s
contract with Applied Science Foundation for Homeland Security even though
the College has contracted with that corporation to further the College’s
academic mission.

Consultation does not mean that an administration sets up all of the
boundaries of all decision-making and then invites the Chair of The Faculty
to sit on all joint committees representing the Faculty. How many elected
or Faculty-appointed members sit on a committee and who they are is part of
the decision-making purview of the Faculty in consultation with
administration. This is what represents a foundation for shared governance.


Further, since we were not party to the design or process in a formal
shared governance format to any of this planning we did not receive
notification until January 26th, when an envelope was offered to the Chair.
Therefore, the potential deadline is not something we can meet. If we were
part of the original process the College might now be in a different place
with regard to the vetting of an RFP and the design of a committee going
forward. Therefore, we cannot support the release of the RFP, at this time.

We would appreciate some information in response to the following
questions:

Who is Applied Science Foundation of Homeland Security?

How did they become involved in our educational mission without faculty
consultation? What are their goals and plans and how will faculty,
students, the College, the region and New York State benefit?

Will the College receive remuneration, and who will oversee and determine
what should be done with any proceeds?

Is there a financial arrangement with this company? Is this a federally
contracted or private company? What is its mission?

We hope that this letter will open a conversation about the process of
academic development at the College and create a foundation for respectful
shared consultation with regard to START-UP NY.


Dr. Kate Velsor, Chair of the Faculty Senate
Dr. Thomas Lilly Vice Chair of the Faculty Senate
Dr. Yogesh More, Secretary-Treasurer
Dr. Kathleen Greenberg, Senator-at-Large
Dr. Minna Barrett, University Faculty Senator