Point of Information 

Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan) 

Faculty Senate Meeting of April 13, 2018

The SUNY Board of Trustees: an Overview



Background: 

The State University of New York was established through Education Law in 1948. 

SUNY is comprised of 64 campuses: 29 state-operated campuses that include 4 university centers; also, five statutory colleges (Alfred Ceramics and 4 colleges within Cornell) and 30 community colleges.

The Board of Trustees is the governing body of the State University of New York. 

The Board consists of 18 members, of whom 15 trustees are appointed by the Governor. President of Student Assembly serves as trustee with vote; UFS and FCCC Presidents serve ex officio without vote.   



Authorities of the Board of Trustees (selected):

Regulatory authority, oversight and fiduciary responsibility for entire SUNY system, including oversight pertaining to the State University Construction Fund and to the SUNY Research Foundation. 

Authority in matters pertaining to the operations and administration of each state-operated campus.

Power to appoint the SUNY Chancellor and System Administration senior staff.

Power to appoint the President of each state-operated campus.   

Power to regulate the admission of students, and prescribe qualifications for their continued attendance.

Power to regulate tuition, fees and charges. 

Power to establish new campuses.  

Power to award Distinguished Rank (e.g., Distinguished Teaching, Distinguished Service).



Committees of the Board of Trustees (selected):

Executive Committee, Academic Affairs, Student Life, Finance and Administration, Research and Economic Development, Charter Schools, Communication and External Affairs. 

Some Areas of Board activity since 1995: Rethinking SUNY, General Education, Public/Private Partnerships, Levin Institute, Energy and Sustainability, Seamless Transfer, Micro-credentials. 



Establishment of SUNY Governance Structure:

University Faculty Senate: established under Article VII of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, UFS is the official agency through which the University Faculty engages in governance of the University. 

Authority of the Faculty: under Article X of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, the faculty of each college are empowered to legislate and act as a policy making body in the performance of its responsibilities as determined by the Board of Trustees, and in keeping with the standards and practices of the University Faculty Senate. Old Westbury Faculty Senate serves as the deliberative body for organizing and carrying out the business of the faculty, consistent with UFS model.



College Council: under Article VIII of the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees, and in accordance with provisions of Education Law, a Council is established at each state-operated institution. 

Councils exercise such powers as provided for in Education Law, “subject to general management, supervision, control and approval” in accordance with rules established by the SUNY Trustees.

Councils develop strong relationships between their institution and local communities, and promote campus and University interests. Councils have a leadership role in presidential searches, and an oversight role in matters of planning, campus buildings, operations and administration.

Statutory role in matters concerning students (e.g., retention, safety, residential life). 

Old Westbury’s College Council consists of 7 members appointed by the Governor, and the President of SGA who serves with vote; Chair of Faculty Senate serves ex officio without vote.  College President, Provost and senior staff report to the Council, which meets four times per year. 



Student Assembly: established under Article XVII of the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees.