ae

SUNY/College at Old Westbury Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, November 15, 2002, 12:30pm — 2:20pm, Room C102 Academic Village
Present: K. Velsor, K. Wood, M. Dolan, C. Butts, P. O’Sullivan, C. Wright, L. Davis, J.
Conforti, R. Edelson, C. Bernard, C. Franco, I. Anmed, A. Martinez, A. Barbera, B. Joseph,
M. Metlay, B. Hillery, C. Sawyer, A. Mahmoud, C. Hobson, M. Keefe, B. Kalmans, H.
Lewittes, G. Snedeker, S. O’Connor, S. Kirkpatrick. Visitors: R. Gonzalez, R. Welton, M.
Rankin, D. Stalker, M. Bell

1.

Approval of the minutes for Friday, November 1, 2002
The minutes were approved unanimously as submitted.

2.

Report from Faculty Senate Chair (Kate Velsor, interim)
The chair reported the results of the special ARPT election (circulated separately).
Elected to one year terms are: Mervyn Keizer, John Biondo, and Alireza Ebrahimi.

3.

Report from the Academic Vice President
a.

b.

The review for the Masters will take place in January, but the exact date is not

known.
Middle States Committee met for the first time November 7. It will meet again on
December 6. The chair, Judy Walsh, has made a set of assignments which will be

completed by then, whereupon there will be another set of assignments.
Presidential grant money can roll over to the Spring. The deadline, November 1,
cannot be extended because the evaluation committee has already disbanded.
Apply for the Spring instead.
The Vice President is concerned that each department completes its assessment
plan, because they must be submitted to the Provost Office in early Spring. He
then asked H. Lewittes to contribute. She explained that next week she would
complete a “format chart” and send it to departments the following week. Some
departments have completed their plans, while others are in progress. Some have
extensive plans which need to be revised for the Provost’s Office which in some
cases has more lenient requirements. Some departments have no plan at all yet.
By mid December she will finalize a list of which departments do and do not have
assessment plans. The plans are not only required by the Provost but are also
needed for the Middle States review in Spring. A. Barbera asked what are the
“more lenient” SUNY requirements. Lewittes explained that some departments
want to know things about themselves that are not asked by Albany. It’s fine to
want to do more but it doesn’t get included in the plan. Finally, it was noted by D.
Stalker that the library wants to include assessment in its sessions beginning in the
Spring.
The Vice President expressed concern about advisement. A number of students
say that they were unable to get advisement. R. Gonzalez, who has been handling
this, said that he can appreciate that there are difficulties in understanding the
First-Year Program, transfer transcripts, and General Education. He recommends

that faculty send students to the CAAT if they are unsure. New transfers have

their information in Banner but previous transfers do not.
faculty trying to advise them. Students will have to learn
responsibility, said B. Joseph, and H. Lewittes added that
how to get their transcripts off the internet and give them

This is a problem for
the system and take
students often do know
to their advisors.

4.

University Faculty Senate Report (M. Dolan)
Senator Dolan’s report is attached. Additional documents (“Task force for rational
fiscal policy,” “Survey of the campus budget process,” and “Comprehensive college
sector report’’) are available in the Faculty Senate office.

5.

Report from the President
a.
The administration worked with the faculty recommendations on Discretionary
Salary Increases. Fixed amounts, not percentages of salary, are being awarded.
The notices should go out 11/22 and the changes should be reflected in the 12/4
pay checks.

P. O’Sullivan, L. Davis and M. Bell will meet again on 11/19 with SUNY

officials to continue to develop a plan for multi-year support. They have worked

with Budget and Planning. The situation is tight and likely to get tighter. A midyear adjustment is unlikely so we will stay with the worst case scenario. He is
encouraged by the fact that we have more information than ever before in the
budget planning process. Our goals have not changed: to reduce costs; to retain
the integrity of our degree programs; and to get students through in a timely
fashion. We are making progress, and the Trustees assure him that they are

committed to Old Westbury.

We get the Student Union at the end of the month and will be cleaning and
moving in December and January. It should be running in the Spring. Maintaining
it, without additional staff, will be an issue.

Two new residence halls should be ready for Spring. They are filled by freshman
with 0 — 32 credits; new transfers; and upper-class students who asked. They are
full. All dorms should be open in Fall ’03. Maintenance will be an issue. We want
to take care of them. When asked if the old residence halls would be used the
President replied that they would not; that they would be emptied; and that a
decision would be made later as to what to do. He added that Post and Nassau
Community College had expressed interest in using them, which could be a
benefit to the College.
Congratulations: to Judith Weinstein-Lloyd who was honored by Chancellor King
for her research efforts; to Onita Estes-Hicks who was listed in Who’s who in

teaching in America; to Amanda Frisken who led the effort to bring here the
production of Greenwood, which was so well received; and to Tom Delgiudice,

Minna Barrett, Carl Mirra, Carolyn Cocca, and everyone involved in the teach-in

on war.

Retention continues to be a critical issue. We have to recruit 4 to replace each we
lose. M. Bell explained that we lose 10% of our first-time-to-college by end of
second semester, which, by the funding formula, costs us $71,000. We are

looking at reasons why we lose. Our image and our facilities certainly seem to
play a role. Once the student union opens we may be able consolidate services for

students. Campus-wide efforts are required. Applications have increased and
some say our image is improving, but students continue to transfer out, thinking
that another school will be better. Some senators suggested that more flexible,
nuanced disciplinary procedures, which did not seem to impinge on student rights,
might be helpful. The President is of a different opinion, but is willing to talk
about it.
6.

UUP Report (C. Franco)
a. The negotiations team had a retreat and is studying the questionnaires.
b. The Alfred College merger fell through.
C: Additional funding is unlikely and a tuition increase hasn’t been ruled out — there
may, in fact, be one as early as the Spring. Though undesirable, it may be the best

way to go.
Upon C. Hobson’s query as to the status of adjuncts in the negotiations, C. Franco

responded that he was not at liberty to discuss negotiations.
7.

SGA Report
There was no SGA report

8.

Old Business
a.

A Resolution on Adjunct Faculty, previously submitted by C. Hobson, was
debated and put to a vote. Discussion centered on whether adjuncts were
“dismissed” or simply “not hired;” on what “customary practice” means; and on
whether full-year contracts for adjuncts would limit Academic Affairs’ flexibility,
especially in relation to full-time faculty courses and full-time temporary hires.
The resolution failed, on a vote of 7 in favor and 7 opposed, with 5 abstentions.
A Resolution in Support of President Calvin O. Butts, III,’s Speech at SUNY

College at Old Westbury, October 9, 2002, previously submitted by B. Joseph,
was debated and put to a vote. By friendly Amendment dates of future events

were removed. The resolution passed, on a vote of 15 in favor, 1 opposed, with 2

abstentions.

9.

New Business
There was no new business.

The meeting adjourned at 2:20pm