Resolution in support of the General Assembly of the Student Assembly of
the State University of New York’s 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success resolution
1415-36

Whereas, there is an increasing number of veterans and their
dependents/family members attending Colleges and Universities1; and

Whereas, veterans and their dependents/family members have been identified
as a student group that may face unique challenges upon arrival to campus;
and

Whereas, the number of beneficiaries of federal veterans educational
support programs exceeded 35,000 in New York state in fiscal year 20132;
and

Whereas, on 10 August 2013, U.S. President Obama, during a speech at the
Disabled American Veterans Conference3, presented the “8 Keys to Veterans’
Success”, a voluntary initiative supported by the U.S. Departments of
Education, Veterans Affairs, and Defense4 (Appendix); and

Whereas, on 20 October 2014, the General Assembly of the Student Assembly
of the State University of New York passed the 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success
resolution 1415-36 to encourage more SUNY campuses to participate by
signing this voluntary initiative5; and

Whereas, it has been demonstrated on campuses that have adopted the 8 Keys
to Veteran’s Success, the successful assimilation of the student veterans
into the College community has been enhanced; and

Whereas, as of 6 January 2015, one thousand three hundred and seventy five
(1,375) Colleges and Universities Nationwide have committed to the 8 Keys
to Veteran’s Success, of those only sixteen (16) are State University of
New York institutions; and

Whereas, as of 23 January 2015, the SUNY University Faculty Senate (UFS)
Student Life Committee approved a resolution in support of the General
Assembly of the Student Assembly of the State University Resolution #1415-
36; and

Whereas, the Student Assembly resolution asks that campus governance
leaders encourage their campuses to review, adopt, and actively participate
in, the voluntary initiative, “8 Keys of Veterans’ Success”; and

Whereas, the Student Assembly resolution encourages the SUNY Chancellor to
ask each campus President to review, and report, to the campus community
and the SUNY Chancellor on the veteran specific services provided by their
campuses to ensure that our veteran students succeed to the best of their
abilities; therefore

Be it resolved that, Old Westbury will review, adopt, and actively
participate in, the voluntary initiative, “8 Keys of Veterans’ Success”;
and

Resolved, that the faculty senate of Old Westbury will ask President Butts
to review, and report, to the campus community and the SUNY Chancellor on
the veteran specific services provided by our campus to ensure that our
veteran students succeed to the best of their abilities.
Be it further Resolved, that the State University of New york College at
Old Westbury Faculty Senate hereby endorses and supports Student Assembly
Resolution #1415—36 and communicates such support to the President of the
Student Assembly and the President of the University Faculty Senate.

1 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/10/17/veterans-enroll-in-
college_n_4117250.html
2 http://www.benefits.va.gov/REPORTS/abr/ABR-Education-FY13-09262014.pdf
3 http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/08/10/remarks-first-lady-
and-president-disabled-american-veterans-convention
4 http://www.ed.gov/veterans-and-military-families/8-keys-success-sites
5 http://www.sunysa.org/wp-content/uploads/SUNYSA-Resolution-1415-36-
Military-Success.pdf

Appendix:
 The 8 Keys to Veterans’ Success:

   1. Create a culture of trust and connectedness across the campus
      community to promote well-being and success for veterans.
   2. Ensure consistent and sustained support from campus leadership.
   3. Implement an early alert system to ensure all veterans receive
      academic, career, and financial advice before challenges become
      overwhelming.
   4. Coordinate and centralize campus efforts for all veterans, together
      with the creation of a designated space for them (even if limited in
      size).
   5. Collaborate with local communities and organizations, including
      government agencies, to align and coordinate various services for
      veterans.
   6. Utilize a uniform set of data tools to collect and track information
      on veterans, including demographics, retention, and degree completion.
   7. Provide comprehensive professional development for faculty and staff
      on issues and challenges unique to veterans.
Develop systems that ensure sustainability of effective practices for
veterans


SUBMITTED BY:  Amara Graf and Shalei Simms on behalf of the Old Westbury
Faculty Senate April 29, 2015