MEMORANDUM
January 23, 2018
TO:

Members of the Board of Trustees

FROM:

Kristina M. Johnson, Chancellor

SUBJECT:

SUNY Micro-Credentialing Implementation

Action Requested
The proposed resolution commends the SUNY-wide Micro-Credentialing
Task Force (“Task Force”) for its report and directs the University Provost to work
collaboratively with campuses to develop strategies over the next year to support
implementation of the Task Force’s recommendations and to keep the Board
apprised of progress.
Resolution
I recommend that the Board of Trustees adopt the following resolution:
Whereas today’s employers are increasingly looking for
candidates to not only earn a degree, but also possess detailed
and easily accessible credentials that verify skill competencies
specific to their hiring needs; and
Whereas students are looking for ways to differentiate
themselves from other job candidates in an increasingly
competitive marketplace, and alumni are looking to gain new
skills to advance in their careers and/or complete ongoing
professional development; and
Whereas colleges and universities are seeking to motivate
students toward completion and explore myriad post-secondary
learning opportunities through stackable and portable microcredentials; and
Whereas in response to these and other factors, institutions of
higher education are increasingly embracing the multi-faceted
micro-credential—which may take the form of digital badges,
MOOCs, or other micro-awards—to both meet business and
industry expectations and motivate and prepare well-rounded
students with highly marketable skills; and
Whereas to ensure SUNY’s leadership role, a university-wide
Micro-Credentialing Task Force was created, with
representation from across campus communities, including the

Board Resolution

-2-

January 23, 2018

University Faculty Senate, Faculty Council of Community
Colleges, and Student Assembly; and
Whereas the Task Force was charged with the review of current
literature and national dialogue on micro-credentials, the
examination of work across SUNY to develop and/or implement
micro-credentials, and the review of relevant SUNY policies to
identify possible barriers and/or the need for new policy to
support student access and success through microcredentialing; and
Whereas the Task Force identified the potential of microcredentials to enable campuses to more quickly respond to
student need and industry demand, establish new
academic/industry partnerships; motivate students to persist
toward academic and career goals, and bridge noncredit and
credit-bearing coursework and experiences; and
Whereas the Task Force recommended a SUNY definition of
micro-credentials that is distinct in its recognition of faculty
purview over curriculum and standards, and its focus on
meaningful, rigorous credentials that serve students’ best
interests; now, therefore, be it
Resolved that the SUNY Trustees commend the Task Force for
its work, resulting in a comprehensive report outlining core
principles and parameters applicable to any SUNY campus that
offers micro-credentials; and be it further
Resolved that the decision of whether or not to pursue microcredentials rests with campuses, and that those campuses who
do opt to develop micro-credentials will attend to the definitions,
guiding principles, and recommendations of the Report of the
Micro-Credentialing Task Force; and, be it further
Resolved that the University Provost is charged with
establishing working groups to support campus implementation
of micro-credentials to address the following key areas:
1.

Policy/Financial Aid: Provost’s Office staff will conduct a
formal policy review process to include representation
from faculty and student governance and an opencomment period for any proposed policy revision in the
areas identified in the Task Force report as well as those
pertaining to financial aid;

2.

Readiness and Assessment: The System Provost will
charge the Faculty Advisory Council on Teaching and
Technology (“FACT2”), which includes faculty and
student governance representation, with developing

Board Resolution

-3-

January 23, 2018

readiness assessment tools and information resources to
support faculty development of micro-credentials;
3.

Data Reporting: To ensure accountability, transparency
and portability of micro-credentials, associated data
reporting at the campus and system levels are
necessary. The University Provost will engage campus
chief academic officers, institutional research officers,
and other stakeholders to develop reporting structures for
SIRIS (“SUNY Institutional Research Information
System”);

4.

Transcripts, Transferability, and Portability: The
University Provost will engage campus registrars and
other staff to explore a system-wide approach to digital
transcripts that include micro-credentials; and, be it
further

Resolved that the University Provost will provide training and
information resources to support campuses in engaging
business and industry partners in discussions around microcredential development; and, be it further
Resolved that the University Provost will periodically update the
Board of Trustees on the progress of the implementation
working groups, expected to complete work by June 2019, and
on progress of the initiative overall and its impact on student
success and completion.
Background
The proposed implementation plan is based on the recommendations of
the SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force. Task Force membership included
presidents, provosts, representatives from the University Faculty Senate, Faculty
Council of Community Colleges and the SUNY Student Assembly, registrars,
business officers, institutional researchers, and continuing education officers.
Over the course of 18 months, the Task Force identified the potential of
micro-credentials (which may take the form of digital badges, MOOCs, or other
micro-awards) to enable campuses to more quickly respond to student need and
industry demand, establish new academic/industry partnerships, motivate
students to persist toward academic and career goals, and bridge noncredit and
credit-bearing coursework and experiences. An excerpt of the Task Force report
including the SUNY definition for micro-credentials, guiding principles for
development and recommendations, is attached.
The proposed micro-credentialing implementation plan is consistent with
SUNY’s ongoing commitment to providing New Yorkers with the credentials they
need to continue their education, find a job and/or advance in their careers.
Attachment

Excerpt from the Report of the SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force
Definition, Parameters, Taxonomy, Guiding Principles & Recommendations (Abbreviated)
SUNY Micro‐Credential Definition:
Micro‐credentials verify, validate and attest that specific skills and/or competencies have been achieved
and are endorsed by the issuing institution, having been developed through established faculty governance
processes and designed to be meaningful and high quality.
Parameters:
Micro‐credentials may represent the content of credit or noncredit study; they may take the form of digital
badge or micro‐award, and can be offered online, on‐campus, or a hybrid of both. Micro‐credentials may be
specifically recognized by certain industries, in which case they may have the advantage of providing
validation and attestation of industry‐specified and frequently highly sought‐after competencies. Each
micro‐credential awarded must be represented clearly and accurately, addressing associated costs,
financial aid, transferability, and stackability toward a formal award(s).
Taxonomy of Terms:
To provide the SUNY community with a common taxonomy around micro‐credentials, a list of definitions
for common micro‐credentialing terms is provided as Appendix A of this report. This list may be expanded
or revised over time and will be maintained online at: http://system.suny.edu/academic‐
affairs/microcredentials.
Guiding Principles:
1. Academic quality is paramount for micro‐credentials, and faculty governance participation is required.
2. Micro‐credentials are initiated locally, developed, and approved according to local campus policies and
procedures, consistent with campus mission and strategic goals.
3. Micro‐credentials designed to meet market needs should be informed by current data from
appropriate markets and align with relevant industry/sector standards.
4. Micro‐credentials can provide opportunities for industry/education connections and partnerships.
5. Micro‐credentials are inherently more flexible and innovative.
6. Micro‐credentials should be portable.
7. Micro‐credentials should be stackable.
Recommendations:
1. Development consistent with Task Force Guiding Principles.
2. Develop a process/practices for articulating (stacking) credentials that includes faculty governance.
3. Partnerships between Continuing Education, Workforce Development, and Academic Affairs will assure
optimum results.
4. Consider ACE Quality Dimensions for Connected Credentials: transparency, modularity, portability,
relevance, validity, equity. Details on cost, financial aid, learning outcomes, assessments, and
stackability for all micro‐credentials.
5. Use of SUNY Definition of Micro‐Credentials & common taxonomy.
6. Seek support and counsel from liaison in the System Program Review and Planning Office.
7. System Provost to launch a formal policy review process to address identified barriers/opportunities for
micro‐credentials.
8. SUNY to join advocacy efforts for quality micro‐credentials for financial aid; explore System‐wide
approach to digital transcripts and portability.
9. Charge FACT2 with development of readiness assessment tools.
10. Define reporting structure in SIRUS so progress can be followed.
Page 1 of 1