Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                          Friday, February 27, 2015

Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding.), Robert Gero
(Secretary/Treasurer/VA), Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian), Minna Barrett
(University Senator), Kathie Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Lisa Whitten
(Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Laura Anker (First
Year Experience), Curt Friehs (Library), Lingxian Li (Accounting), Shalei
Simms (MMF Dept.), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Laura Chipley
(American Studies), Manya Mascareno (Biological Studies), Michael Colaneri
(Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf (English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Edislav
Manetovic (PEL), Ashlee Lien (Psychology),  Shijian Li (Public Health),
Jacob Heller (FRR Committee).

Excused Senators: Fernando Guerrero (Vice-Chair/ML), Calvin Butts
(President), Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Ana Martinez (Professional).

Senators Absent: Costas Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large), Caroline
Sawyer (University Senator Alternate/Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman
(Professional), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Frank C. Ilozue (SGA),
Camilla Swasey (SGA), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Diana
Sukhram (Exceptional Education), Frank Sanacory (Math/CIS), Laura Limonic
(Sociology), Chris Hobson (ARPT Com.), Cary Lange (CAP Committee), Zenaida
Madurka (HLCC), Ryoko Yamamato (TLRC) Jacob Heller (FRR Committee .

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Wayne Edwards (VP Student
Affairs), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS), Julio Gonzalez (Dean, SOE)

Visitors Present: Yumi Nicholson (CAD), Kathena Francis (CAD), Patty Harris
(VA).

   I. Call to Order: 12:37 pm

  II. Approval of minutes of November 14, 2014 and December 5, 2014
      No minutes available.


 III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report
Some faculty members have lost a relative lately. A motion to send regards
to them in the name of the Faculty Senate was approved.

The Executive Committee met with Dr. O’Sullivan. He spoke to us about the
importance of Teacher Evaluations. In earlier meetings I asked for
volunteers to work on teacher evaluations.  Myeshia Price, Ashlee Lien
volunteered to work on this committee.

 I discussed this issue with Ed Bever who was the chair of the previous
committee.  A meeting was arranged between Chris Hobson Chair of ARPT,
Jacob Heller, Chair of Faculty Rights and Responsibilities Committee,
Kathleen Greenberg, Senator at Large and Ashlee Lien.  Ed Bever was unable
to attend but sent written comments and his recommendations are highlighted
on that document:

However, based on your report on your meeting Wednesday, it sounds like
there is a pretty strong consensus in favor of the old survey and Scantron
technology, which is what I favor.
If it can help with the discussion, here’s my take on the various
possibilities:
   1) “Open” online (i.e., a commercial or otherwise independent website: we
      tried this with Kathy Greenberg’s pilot program, and got unacceptably
      low response rates (which is consistent with the general experience of
      online surveys).
   2) Online in Banner: we tried this with the pilot program I was involved
      with, and while response rates were higher in the summer, they went
      down in the fall to near the rates of #1. Furthermore, the results
      were significantly different from in-class surveys.
   3) Online in Blackboard: while many courses use Blackboard, many don’t
      and even in classes that do use it, only a portion of the students
      will go there to take a survey. While, like Banner, we might get
      higher response rates than via an “open” online system, they seem
      likely, like Banner, to still be low.
   4) Online in Google Docs: seems likely to be similar to open online at
      worst and only to Banner/Blackboard at best.
   5) A Mobile App: While this is the most promising online approach since
      it could actually be administered in class, the fact that we can’t
      assume all students have smart phones means we have to create an
      alternative, computer based input method that can be used via
      classroom computers, which seems clumsy. If a Scantron is
      unattainable/Prohibitively costly this would be my second choice, but
      I think we will have to have it custom-made and, with the need to
      support dual input modes, I suspect it will be very costly as well.
Hope this helps.

Discussion during this meeting resulted in a resolution to be presented
later in the meeting.

Dr. Butts talked about the Performance Improvement Plan at the College
Council Meeting this morning. He will address it further at the Full
Faculty Senate Meeting next week. SUNY Excels which it the SUNY label for
this Performance Improvement Plan now consists of seventeen SUNY-wide
indices. Campuses are able to select some of the indices we assess to be
appropriate for our specific campus needs and some of the indices will
require attention across SUNY campuses. Such a plan must be submitted to
and approved by the Board of Trustees by December 31, 2015 in order to not
be penalized 10% of the Improvement Plan funds coming to each campus, if
approved by the NYS legislature.

On February 12, Michael Kinane presented the new branding campaign for the
campus at the kickoff 50th Anniversary Convocation held on campus.

  IV. President’s Report

President not in attendance.

   V. Provost’s Report

Provost not in attendance.

  VI. Old Business

    • Discussion of Teacher Evaluations (Ashlee Lien)

Provost O’Sulllivan was clear about his desire for us to come to resolution
about a process during his recent meeting with the Executive Committee. A
committee was assembled after the scan machine broke in 2005. The
recommendation of that committee was to call upon Academic Affairs to
provide sufficient resources.  A faculty member reported that he ran a
pilot study providing student evaluations both on line and in class when he
was the Chair of the Faculty Senate (2011-2012) and the results were
notably different.

After reviewing the options the Student Evaluations Committee decided that
for now, the most appropriate decision is to follow is the old process and
that Academic Affairs should support the purchase of a new scanning
machine. The committee brought a resolution supporting that conclusion. A
discussion ensued about where to locate the machine (Faculty Senate Office)
and who would be able to use it (only for teacher-student evaluations but
with no final decisions taken about who would be using it. \

Following a highly positive “sense of the Senate” assessment, the
resolution was sent to the floor and question was called. A vote followed
and the resolution passed as 17 were registered in favor, 1opposed, and 1
abstention.

    • Resolutions and Actions (Minna Barrett)

1. The Governor’s proposed Budget for 2015-2015 presents significant cuts
to funding for SUNY and highlights problems with the way Rational Tuition
imposes privatization on SUNY via a TAPTAX to campuses. In addition, the
Governor proposes to impose a 10% loss in SUNY Excels plans to any campus
that does not meet the timeline for creating a plan or which plan does not
receive approval from the Board of Trustees.  The Governor proposes
significant cuts to EOP, ATTAIN, and Cornell Cooperative Extension, and to
defund University Hospitals while giving tax breaks to people purchasing
very expensive cars and yachts.  As “Rational Tuition” increases the
state’s commitment to fully funding tap eligible students does not and the
individual campuses across SUNY are then asked to fund the differential out
of their operating budgets. This year that cost to our local operating
budget is $800,000.  In essence, students paying tuition have to make for
those who are designated by the state as too poor to meet tuition rates,
rather than the state assuming the responsibility to cover that full TAP
payment.  In SUNY this is referred to as the TAPGAP, but, we have decided
to refer to this as the TAPTAX on campuses and students.  We will prepare a
resolution for consideration by this body and send it along to appropriate
state bodies to join the lobbying efforts of the University Faculty Senate
and the UUP to support public higher education fully.  Other issues such as
increasing privatization of primary and secondary public education will
also be addressed. Keep Tabs on changes to the Governor’s Budget as the
legislative session meets to address their interests.  Advocate with your
local assemblypersons and senators to fully fund SUNY.

2. Student Assembly during the last Statewide Senate Meeting passed a
resolution on Veterans Affairs which supports providing specialized
services to veterans, so they can succeed in any campus unit where they
are. Mike Kinane sent a notification that we received special recognition
for our Veterans Affairs Program. It is common practice that local campuses
support resolutions of university-wide need or interest when such
resolutions are passed at the University Faculty Senate or Student
Assembly. We assess that the Veteran’s Affairs Resolution of the SU is such
a resolution. It is a way for us to support what students want and
acknowledging we are already doing it. The Executive Committee requests a
small group of senators to create the language of the resolution as follow
through. Amara Graf and Shalei Simms volunteered.

Some compressive colleges report that they do not have a universal or at
least fairly administered family leave policy.  We might want to take the
lead on finding out what takes place on our campus and about developing a
resolution to work state-wide on leave policy. Laura Chipley from AS has
agreed to gather that information.

3.-The Governor proposes in his budget to impose a graduation requirement
for applied/experiential/service learning on the CUNY and SUNY Systems.
While our local campus has a wide range of expectations and opportunities
for students, we don’t impose it as a graduation requirement. We would do
well if there was a move to enforce this curricular option, because so many
programs require such learning, however, it is not a graduation requirement
at the college, currently.  The discussion in the University Faculty Senate
focused on two critical factors. The first is that the imposition violates
faculty rights to determine the curriculum and that this type of learning
requires funding as new programs are required to be developed.  SUNY
Faculty leadership is opposed to the imposition outside the traditional and
expected channels of course and program development.

4. Maintaining commitment to diversity and measuring diversity via SUNY
Excels.  If the Governor’s budget is approved and the cuts to EOP, ATTAIN,
Cornel Cooperative Extension, University Hospitals are not restored, if the
state refuses to pay faculty salary increases from the state budget and
rather forces campuses to eat the salary increases, and as “Rational
Tuition” increases with no matched increases in Tuition Assistance, the
students most impacted are those at the lower end of the educational and
income piplelines.  While the Governor is promising to address poverty in
the state, he is cutting the very programs that support the most
economically needy in public education while proposing to increase the
number of charter schools to 500 from 400 this year and to offer that
coalition a total of $141.  Since we are strong on the Excels indices in
diversity and access, an attack on that funding is detrimental to our
specific college mission and is in direct opposition to the SUNY-wide 20/20
goals of increasing access and diversity across the system.

5. The Governor has included a state Dream Act to allow undocumented
persons to attend public higher education. However, he has tied it to a
bill that allows people to receive tax credits if they contribute funds to
private or public schools and he does not advocate that students who
qualify financially for tuition remission through TAP be fully funded for
that tuition via the state.

6. We (UUP the professional negotiating organization) have negotiated a 2%
increase for 2015-2016 with the state of NY. However, the Governor is
proposing that campuses (Essentially student tuition) should carry the
increases to faculty and that the funds should , therefore, come out of
campus operating budgets, further “privatizing” the public system of higher
education.

Discussion/Questions about TAP and the Governor’s Budget.

Discussion about the illusion of “rational” tuition and the campus TAPTAX

Are private colleges who receive state tuition support funds going to be
measured by any Performance Matrix? Should private colleges in NY state
continue to receive public funds, while poor students in the public sector
are no longer provided full tuition remission, faculty in the public sector
are supposed to fund their salary increases from operating budgets and the
number of fulltime faculty relative to the number of students continues to
decline?

If we are to propose a comprehensive resolution to address budget issues it
has to happen now, since the Governor always produces a budget by April
1st.  The budget is going to be delivered in a month or so the time is
ticking to send out that resolution.

Senators requested that more specific information about the budget and its
current status be brought to the next meeting.

With regard to the Family Leave Act, the senator involved might address an
inquiry to Martha Livingston, our local UUP Academic VP, since leave policy
is a condition of work.

Members of the Senate EC and another Senator will ask for meeting with VP
for Budget, Mr. Len Davis to review issues with regard to campus operating
budget and report back to the faculty.


 VII. New Business

No new business

VIII. Announcements

    • Reminder that SAS Students Research Day is being held this April 21st.
       The theme this year is Culture  and Community, The call for abstracts
      will be sent via email on March 21st. Please encourage students to
      participate.

Full Faculty Senate meeting is scheduled for March 6, 2015.

  IX. Adjournment at 2:11. Feb. 27