SUNY / College at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate
Meeting Minutes - March 15, 2002
Present: N. Rosenthal, R. Colon-Urban, J. Lloyd, K. Wood, M. Barrett, J. Llana, W. Shenouda,
J. Edelson, M. Colaneri, C. Franco, I. Ahmed, A. Martinez, M. Teloki, A. Barbera, A. Frisken,
M. Metlay, M. Keizer, C. Hobson, M. Crocitto, J. Harris, H. Lewittes, G. Snedeker, S. O’Connor
Visitors:

1.

R. Gonzalez, R. Welton, R. Brown, N. Sacks, C. Wardell, M. Feder-Marcus

Approval of March 1* Minutes

a. There were
misspelled;
b. In item 3a,
in the new

several corrections to the attendance list: H. Lewittes and M. Crocitto were
President Butts and L. Davis were present.
Humanities and Languages should be added to the departments participating
African-American Studies minor.

c. L. Davis requested that the minutes be amended to reflect his position on the 6 bulleted
statements on page 1 of M. Dolan’s BPC report. He had stated at the meeting that he
characterized these statements as inaccurate, misleading and taken out of context.

The minutes were accepted unanimously as amended.
Chair’s Report (N. Rosenthal)

a. The chair issued a formal apology to Denton Watson regarding inappropriate comments
she made during the last meeting. She has learned that the Convocation Committee is a
presidential committee, and that faculty representatives are not required to report to
Senate. D. Watson was present and accepted the apology.
b. A letter from Bill Scheuerman, thanking faculty for supporting the UUP resolution on
Trustee de Russy was read (attached). The effect of her remarks has been to expedite the
development of our Black Studies minor. Newsday will feature further discussion of the

issue.

c. A delegation visited L. Davis to discuss progress of the BPC committee. Since that visit,
the Budget Planning subcommittee has been given some budget information. However,
there has been no progress on the Capital Planning subcommittee, which L. Davis does
not view as his responsibility. Future participation on the BPC will be taken up at the

April 5" Senate meeting.

d. Two faculty members have been identified for the student Life Committee (B. Joseph and
W. Knack) but four more are needed. Nominees are invited to contact the faculty Senate
office to volunteer. C. Wright has requested a faculty presence at student judicial
hearings, which meet Tuesdays and Thursdays at 12:30pm. Faculty may contact C.
Wright for information.
e. There was a College Council meeting last Monday, at which the president sought
members’ help in raising funds.
Report from the Development Office (R. Brown)
a. A schematic diagram of the development process was distributed (attached).

The process

remains, at the first two stages because of past failures to lay groundwork.
b. The Foundation Board, which consists of 19 members, mostly civic leaders recruited by

Dr. Butts, has returned to its role of fund-raising.

oversee spending.

New policies have been put in place to

2

c. The office is moving on three fronts
i.
Foundation Board leadership will be expanding
ii.
Alumni affairs: there is now a program in place to solicit donations from alumni, to
organize reunions, and to create and distribute newsletters
iii. | Corporate/Foundation funding opportunities are being pursued by C. Wardell
d. Sources of private funding are being pursued to renovate the stables.
There are plans to seek a 3-year grant to re-initiate a Continuing Education program.
f. The Office is planning a retreat in May, when targeted goals for the office will be put in
place.

4. Questions/Comments

a. There were several questions about student scholarships. These are managed by the
Development Office, and P. Chin will be asked to report. Scholarship opportunities are
mailed to students twice a year. M. Barrett requested information about a student who

was denied her scholarship, and will pursue the specifics with R. Brown.

b. In response to a question about specific amounts raised, R. Brown gave the following
approximate annual figures: $20k from Leeds, $2k from alumni, $28k net from the
International Awards Luncheon, $20k matching from the State, $2.5k from corporate
sponsors of Clark Center activities (Scuba Network and L.I. Baseball Academy).
c. R. Brown responded to a question about fund-raising specifically for the library by saying
that a “friends of the College” approach was better than more narrowly focused activities.
d. In a discussion about funding sources, Senators expressed concerns about choosing
socially responsible corporate sponsors. R. Brown indicated that he would review
potential sponsors. M. Barrett suggested that corporations on the CREF Social Choice
list would be acceptable, and might be more interested in sponsoring Old Westbury than
other corporations. She also suggested the Working Assets web page for a list of
corporations cleared by human rights organizations.
5. General Education Resolution on Structure (H. Lewittes)

H. Lewittes presented background on proposed structure of the General Education
committee for inclusion in the Faculty Bylaws as a standing committee. She noted that the
proposal to formalize the present structure came from committee members, was working
well and has created strength on campus and in Albany. The proposal attempts to resolve
controversies surrounding the role of chairs, involvement of the AVP office, and elections.

6. Comments / Questions
a. The proposed structure is more consistent with bylaws descriptions of college-wide
committees, which usually have more than an academic focus. This committee is purely
academic and should have elected members. Lewittes commented that not including it as
a standing committee undermines faculty participation and strength. She urged faculty to
accept this structure as anomalous, but appropriate for governance.

b. The proposal does not identify which 6 of the 8 ex-officio members shall vote. The
procedure should be documented.
c. A suggestion to remove the one-term limit was accepted as a friendly amendment.
Selection of the chair is critical, and must be acceptable to administration as well as to
faculty. If Gen Ed is a standing committee, selection of the chair would not involve
administration. R. Gonzalez noted that SUNY holds the President responsible for
General Education.
Because of questions about the implications of identifying General Education as a collegewide, rather than a standing committee, the Senate voted to table the discussion [18-1-2].
7. Resolution of the Faculty Fund (R. Colon-Urban)
There have been no problems surrounding the use of faculty funds.
with the resolution on such expenditures passed [15-0-2].

A resolution to dispense

8. Resolution on Graduation Date (M. Metlay)
A friendly amendment to remove the first “Whereas” was accepted. The resolution
regarding change of graduation date from Sunday to Friday now reads:

Whereas, There has been no formal discussion of this change with either Senate or the

Faculty at large;

Therefore Be It Resolved That:
A final decision with regard to the change of day be delayed until a full discussion of the
pros and cons of such a change takes place in the Senate.
9. Questions / Comments

a. Many graduates bring families and have receptions after graduation.

This is easier to do

on the weekend,

b. The proposed change of date saves the campus money in overtime costs.
c. The times (December graduation Friday at 12 noon and May graduation Friday at 4:00
PM) were selected to avoid conflicts with observance of the Sabbath. Several faculty
noted that 4:00 was not early enough to achieve this goal. The end of ceremony must
leave 3 hrs for travel.
The resolution as amended

was accepted [19-0-1].

10.

Resolution on TAP funding (M. Teloki)

11.

BPC discussion

M. Teloki spoke for the resolution, noting that many TAP recipients are the first in their
families to attend college, and need all possible funding. The amount requested in the
proposal is to restore funds cut from the previous year.
The resolution was approved [19-0-0].

Wy BPC Discussion
The Senate held a brief discussion about the BPC in anticipation of a fuller debate at the next
meeting.
a. M. Feder-Marcus expressed her concern about process. Although the Senate empowered
M. Dolan to work with L. Davis on the structure of the budget planning subcommittee,
administration made unilateral changes. A new subcommittee has been formed, with 9
administrators and 3 faculty. Materials, including budget numbers, committee charge and
activities for 2001/2002 were shared with chairs, but not with the BPC committee.

The

Senate Executive Committee has sent a delegation to speak to L. Davis and has not issued
an official report.
J. Lloyd responded that the delegation included two faculty members of the BPC, that she
had reported about the outcome of the meeting to M. Dolan, and that the delegation had
been told by L. Davis that the budget planning subcommittee was created by merging the
Strategic Planning and Budget Plan working groups. The latter was disputed by M.
Feder-Marcus, who noted that the merged committee had been in place since January, and

M. Dolan had been charged to resolve problems with its structure and membership.
M. Barrett noted that there have been procedural and bylaws violations
Senate will decide whether to continue participation on the BPC at the next Senate

meeting.
12. UUP
UUP
were
will

Report (C. Franco)
has established a political action plan for restoration of funding to SUNY. Faculty
urged to participate in Lobby Day, during the legislative session, on March 20". A bus
leave campus at 9:00 AM.

13. SGA Report (M. Teloki)
a. The multicultural festival will be held on May 1". Suggested activities should be
forwarded to M. Teloki.
b. SGA elections will be conducted during the second week in April. Faculty were asked to
encourage students to participate.
The Humanities and Languages department is sponsoring a play on April 5" at 7:30 PM
in Maguire Theatre. The play is a Repertorio Espanol production of Federico Garcia
Lorca’s La Casa de Bernarda Alba Lorca. Tickets are $13 for faculty and public and $8
for students. Call Marilyn at x3110 for tickets. Translation headphones are available for
no charge.
14.

Announcements

The Day Care center will be erected temporarily in the performing arts wing of the
campus center. It is expected to be functioning in Fall 2002.
b. Two founding members of the Old Westbury faculty recently passed away: Barbara
Lawrence and John Sevier.
a.

The meeting adjourned at 2:40 PM.