RESOLUTION TO ENHANCE AND MODERNIZE THE RESEARCH ENTERPRISE
AT
THE COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
BACKGROUND:
The research endeavor benefits faculty scholarship, active student curricular and extracurricular
engagement in applied learning opportunities, and the larger community in multiple ways. The
SUNY Old Westbury administration, the SUNY Research Foundation (SUNY-RF) the Office of
Research Sponsored Programs (ORSP), the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC),
the Institutional Review Board (IRB), and the Faculty Development Grant (FDG) committees are
currently the responsible parties dedicated to carrying out the operations necessary for supporting
and achieving excellence in research activities at the College.
There are, however, a number of specific areas where the infrastructural support for research
activities and innovation at Old Westbury is constrained, does not facilitate the achievement of
excellence in the research endeavor, and also does not meet current structures and standards at
comparable SUNY and non-SUNY institutions.
These can be broadly classified into three areas:
I - Extramural and intramural research grant-related issues and constraints
II - Approval process and tracking of research proposals, expenditures, administrative
approvals, and Software issues and constraints, and
III - Support for research infrastructure support, oversight, maintenance, and
modernization.
This Resolution outlines the aforementioned issues and offers suggestions to ameliorate these
problems in an effort to support the enhancement and modernization of the research endeavor on
campus.
RATIONALE:
The Faculty, Staff, and Students are the main constituents that serve to raise the profile of the
College as they are the main campus producers of research that benefit our local communities,
professional fields, and communities abroad as consumers of our campus research activities,
innovations, products, new technology inventions, patents, etc.

The work that the College administration, the ORSP (Office of Research Sponsored Programs), the
SUNY-RF (SUNY- Research Foundation), the IRB (the Institutional Review Board), and the IACUC
(Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee), and the FDG (Faculty Development Grant)
Committees have done for the College during these challenging times is much appreciated.
However, many of the problems and constraints existed prior to the time of the pandemic, and
many of those issues were exacerbated by it.

The specific issues are outlined below serve as the rationale for the WHEAREAS clauses that follow:
I. EXTRAMURAL AND INTRAMURAL RESEARCH GRANT-RELATED
ISSUES/CONSTRAINTS:
a. There is no clear or transparent centralized process that informs Faculty, Staff, and
Students how indirect costs acquired from extramural funding are used, reallocated,
and/or charged back to balance the financial business of the College.
b. There is no clear or transparent process for the allocation of a set percentage of
indirect costs acquired from extramural funding to:
• be used for stimulating intramural grants (e.g., FDG) at the College
• be set aside for equipment repairs and service contracts; and
• develop a research supply emergency fund.
c. There is no clear or transparent process for annual funding allocations (from
sources other than from extramural funding) to be used for stimulating FDG grants
at the College;
d. The annual schedule of the solicitation for the FDG application cycle is variable;
sometimes occurs both Fall and Spring semesters but sometimes only once in the
academic year; and often occurs too late within a given semester
e. There are often significant delays in the FDG award notification process which
impedes the timely implementation and completion of FDG funded research.
f.

There are often significant delays in the review of FDG or other funded projects,
which again impedes the timely implementation and completion of funded research

g. Once an FDG is awarded, the utilization of funds is hindered at multiple points such
as:
• substantial delays in obtaining funds from administration to conduct
research activities in a timely manner, and
• unclear processes to obtain and confirm quotes and/or purchases, and
• unclear administrative approvals to order and purchase research supplies
and equipment.
• Inability to identify approval agents or track approval processes
These inconsistencies in the intermural funding process have consistently hampered the ability to
conduct initial research in a timely manner and thereby reduced the ability to obtain pilot data to
augment the efforts for additional extramural funding; and as well set back effective participation in
applied learning activities.

II. APPROVAL PROCESS AND TRACKING OF RESEARCH PROPOSALS, EXPENDITURES,
AND ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVALS AND SOFTWARE
a. There is no clear or transparent system to track the administrative approval process
of Local Approval Forms and Grant Submissions; and
b. There is no clear or transparent system to track purchase orders for research
supplies/consumables, equipment, and software; and
c. There is no clear or transparent system to track the approval process of the IRB and
the IACUC research proposals; and
d. There is no clear, transparent, or modern software/technology system in place to
streamline the IRB proposal review process so as to facilitate:
• requests for expedited reviews,
• timely reviews that allow research to be approved and conducted within a single
semester. (This time-factor is essential for student-led research)
• efficient response to queries and approvals to conduct meaningful research on
campus; and
e. While there is a clear and transparent system in place for the IACUC to streamline
the review of submitted research proposals, IACUC lacks a modern
software/technology system for reviewing research proposals
The aforementioned issues prevent Faculty, Staff, and Students from actively engaging in research
during the Fall and Spring semesters, which, as detailed above, directly reduces the research output
from the campus and further hinders the Faculty, Staff, and Students’ ability to obtain critical pilot
data to apply for both intramural and extramural funding opportunities; and the prioritization of
Student curricular and extracurricular engagement in applied learning and research activities given
their unique and often restricted timelines; and
III. SUPPORT FOR RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT, OVERSIGHT, MAINTENANCE,
AND MODERNIZATION:
a. The computer, wet, and dry laboratory spaces are in need of modernization and
currently are not effectively or strategically managed
b. Currently the IRB and the IACUC lack an oversight committee to assess, evaluate and
facilitate resolution of issues which arise in those committees.

RESOLUTION TO ENHANCE AND MODERNIZE THE RESEARCH ENTERPRISE
AT
THE COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
WHEREAS there are issues and constraints that exist in extramural and intramural research grantrelated activities as detailed in the Rational section of this Resolution, and
WHEREAS there are issues and constraints in approval processes; tracking research proposals;
expenditures, and administrative approvals; and lack of appropriate software to facilitate these
processes, as detailed in the Rational section of this Resolution, and
WHEREAS there are concerns and constraints in the support, oversight, maintenance, and
modernization of research activities, as detailed in the Rational section of this Resolution.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate set up a Taskforce to Enhance and
Modernize the Research Enterprise at Old Westbury which will include members from the
Faculty Senate Executive Committee, the IRB, the IACUC, the IT Department, the IT Governance
Committee, the Research Space Committee, the ORSP Director, representatives of the
Administration, five faculty members who will be representatives from the Natural and Physical
Sciences, the Social and Behavioral Sciences, Humanities and the Arts, Business, and Education; and
representation from the SGA.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Taskforce to Enhance and Modernize the Research
Enterprise at Old Westbury in consultation with SUNY Old Westbury Administration, the ORSP,
the IACUC, the IRB, and the FDG committees, deliberate and commit to exploring the formation of a
Standing Committee on Enhancing Research to provide consistent oversight related the issues as
detailed and others that may arise. The Standing Committee will regularly evaluate and assess the
research needs, issues, and concerns raised by Faculty, Staff, and Students to facilitate research
activities on campus and to plan for future growth in the research endeavors at Old Westbury.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Taskforce work with the SUNY Old Westbury administration
to institute clear and transparent processes for the annual allocations of funds to support FDGs; the
proportionate allocation of extramural funding for stimulating FDGs; allocations of indirect funds
for equipment repairs and service contracts; and allocations for a research supply emergency fund,
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Taskforce collaboratively work with SUNY Old Westbury
administration, the ORSP, and the FDG Committee to set up earlier and more consistent FDG
application cycles and timely notification dates to facilitate Faculty’s ability to complete purchase
orders, begin conducting research, and facilitate the timely engagement with Staff and Students in
curricular and extracurricular applied learning opportunities, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Taskforce in consultation with SUNY Old Westbury IT
Department, work with the administration, the ORSP, the IACUC, the IRB, and the FDG committees
to acquire or develop the equipment/software/technology necessary for IRB and IACUC to
transparently and efficiently process all types of research proposals submitted (ranging from
exemptions, expedited reviews, full reviews etc.)
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Taskforce work with SUNY Old Westbury administration
and the ORSP to conduct an assessment of the labor demands placed on the IRB and the IACUC who
are volunteer faculty that oversee the review of all of the submitted research proposals, and, using a
‘best practices’ approach, facilitate a more efficient research proposal review process for all
research-related campus constituents, while ensuring that all relevant ethical standards are upheld.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Taskforce, in consultation SUNY Old Westbury IT
Department, work with the Administration, ORSP and other related departments to develop the
software/technology infrastructure necessary to modernize the College’s purchase order, request
and approval, and tracking system to facilitate and expedite the acquisition of equipment and
monies necessary for the implementation of the research process, and

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Taskforce to Enhance and Modernize the Research
Enterprise at Old Westbury work with SUNY Old Westbury Administration and related bodies to
obtain feedback on research needs, such as space, facilities and maintenance, across all disciplines
on campus to facilitate equitable distribution and sharing of current resources.
Resolution Submitted to the Faculty Senate Executive Committee on 04/23/2021
Sponsored by: The Psychology Department – School of Arts & Sciences;
Endorsed by: XX