NOTES taken during the UUP Update to Faculty Senate on 11/17/17:

			

			M. Livingston urges UUP members to get involved.  There is a Supreme Court case (Janus) coming up for union fees to not be required.  Currently, workers are not required to join a union, but all are required to pay the fee so that the union can represent them.  This case says that individuals’ rights are violated if such fees are collected. In the United States, we have an overall 11% union membership; New York State’s union membership rate is 25%.  

			In UUP statewide, we are working to make sure that all those who are eligible are members.  Adjuncts may not know they are not members. We have signup cards, and would like your help identifying non-members (“fee payers”), and signing them up.  Our UUP secretary Mary Navarra, (516) 333-5770, can look up who is and is not a member. Our biggest gap is among adjuncts.  

			UUP has been working to get a new contract since our old one ended in July 2016.  But the state’s chief negotiator has been away for the past month. We are trying to get what others have gotten in contracts.  The statewide UUP president wants salary improvements in addition to the 2% across-the-board, and would prefer as much of this as possible be non-discretionary, to achieve more fairness for all.

			UUP is circulating a petition urging that the contract be settled quickly.  Please pick up copies, or print them off the UUP website (uupinfo.org), and bring signed petitions back to the UUP office.  After Thanksgiving we may call for a rally at common hour. Martha distributed some petitions at this meeting.

			Our union participation needs to be more robust.  We want, for example, to restart a newsletter.  And we need department representatives.  Every department should contact UUP asap to let us know who the rep from your department is.

			Jingyi Song from H&P will represent that department.

			There are many other potential areas for involvement, including a political outreach director.

			The next General Meeting is Wed. Dec 6th in the Student Union multipurpose room, 12-2pm; lunch will be served.  Two UUP statewide officers are attending and will provide an update on the contract negotiations.

			UUP will be holding monthly Labor-Management meetings, including once a semester with the President in attendance, as required in the contract; on October 19th, we held the first such meeting in some time.

			The new Time and Attendance system is in the works; chairs have been trained.  The rest of the faculty will be trained later. Faculty will NOT have to report any more detail than has been previously the case, generally absence due to illness or conference attendance. 

			M. Barrett comments that UFS passed a resolution on the same topic as the petition.

			P. Ikeler comments that paid family leave, job security for adjuncts, and pay increases are union priorities. 

			In the discussion, Senators mentioned that health insurance premiums have lately been increasing, and providers are harder to find.  

				

			

			

1