STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY 

Full Faculty Meeting 

Friday, September 25, 2020 

12:30 p.m. - 2:25 p.m. 





Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), John Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Roger Mayer (AC), Llana Barber (AS), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gilic (EE, Senator-At-Large (SOE)), Deepa Jani (EN), Laura Anker (FY), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Renu Balyan (MACS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Sarah Smith (PH), Erik Benau (PY), Curtis Holland (SY), Catherine Bernard (VA), Jillian Crocker (ARPT), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Danielle Lee (LEC), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Eric Hagan (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Bonnie Eannone (Professional)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Frank Pizzardi (VPEnroll), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE), Dr. Teresa Miller (Officer-in-Charge)



Faculty Present: Jingyi Song, Lorenz Neuwirth, Linda Camarasana, Margaret Torrell, Nicholas Werner, Erin Toolis, Ashok Basawapatna, Robert Bednarczyk, Lisa Chin, Ed Bever, Lisa Lewin, Chante Hope, Patrick O'Brien, Seojung Jung, Patricia Harris, Rose Muzio, Yogesh More, Sachi Dastidar, Martha Livingston, Chris Hartmann, Ruomei Gao, Orquidea Morales, Gary Levanti, Solomon Chak, Shebuti Rayana, Angel Lara, Fernando Nieto, Svetlana Jovic, Joe Manfredi, Carol Quirke, Ozgur Akgun, Gilda Zwerman, Laura Angyal, Tejas Bouklas, Matthew Lippert, Edward Verlander, Mohamed Khalefa, Geta Techanie, Patrick Cadet, Kinning Poon, Marcia Gillespie, Keisha Goode, Fred Millan, Elena Smirnova, Thomas Lilly, Jacqueline Emery, Robert Mevissen, Hedva Lewittes, Jeanne Shimizu, Diana Papademas, Betty Berbari, Sarah Kamens, Lee Blackstone, Nicole Sieben, Fred Fleisher, Lisa Whitten, Frank Sanacory, Lisa Payton, Lenore Walsh, Carolina Bustamante, Khalid Mirza, Ashlee Lien, Colleen Woods, Doyoung Park, Wenwen Chien, Kasia Platt, Wayne Edwards



Visitors: Evan Kobolakis, Dinorah Martinez, Malini Kumar, Arthur Kalish, Jacob Heller, Mike Kinane, Cris Notaro, Thomas Rico, Barbara Hillery, Anthony Barbera, Stacey DeFelice, Lenore Walsh



Roster of Senators Absent: Xavier Marechaux (AE), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Ana Martinez (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA), Hana Elgoarany (SGA)



AGENDA 

0. Zoom Room Opens at 12:15: Tech check. Say hello in chat on arrival. 

I. Call to Order 12:30 II. Approval of Minutes for May 1, 2020 

Minutes were approved by unanimous consent as amended 

III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report 

Welcomed Teresa Miller our new Officer in Charge.

Congratulated Duncan Quarless and Barbara Hillery for being appointed permanent provost and associate provost. 

Commented on the issues surrounding the budget and the importance of faculty governance playing a supportive role.

All committees will be introduced in today’s meeting and FUAC award nominations. are now underway. There are still two vacancies on FUAC that need to be filled. 

Executive Committee will be meeting with all chairs of each committee very soon.





IV. Officer in Charge’s Report 

Introduced herself with a short bio

Thanked all the faculty for their hard work in these unprecedented times and congratulate winners of the Chancellors award. Dr. Thomas Lilly Jr. in politics, economics and Law. Dr. Lorenz Newirth in Psychology, both receiving Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Teaching. Dr Arthur Samanski, School of business received Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in adjunct teaching. Furthermore, Lorraine tadisco in School of Business received Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Professional Service.

Also acknowledges Associate Professor Romae Guy, Assistant Professor Young Joo Kim and Professor America Judith Loi for their publications pertaining to Covid-19.

Michael Kavic received a 189,233 research grant from the NSF and their windows on the universe multi messenger astrophysics program.

Distinguished Teaching Professor Robert Coit of chemistry and physics, was awarded the 2020 spaniels, Stanley C. Israel regional award for advancing diversity 

in the chemical sciences for the Mid Atlantic region of America, American Chemical Society.

US News and World Report ranked SUNY Old Westbury number seven in the Northeast region for its success and achieving social mobility for its students.

Money Magazine for the third year in a row included the college among the institutions offering the best values in the nation.

for third consecutive year, SUNY Old Westbury won the Heed? Award for Excellence in diversity.

Acknowledges that density reduction is the key to keeping rates of Covid-19 down.

Old Westbury was required to reduce density due to the ultimate care facility built on campus.

We have roughly 440 students studying in facilities dependent in person classes this this fall, as compared to 4800 in the preceding fall semester. With 16 faculty teaching those facility dependent courses, as compared to 375 faculty last fall.

Unlike the other comprehensive colleges in New York State, SUNY Old Westbury does not have students living on campus this semester so mandatory testing does look a little different.

We rely on faculty and staff to set an example for students and get tested voluntarily at no cost to the employee.

Pool surveillance testing is extremely expensive. We have yet to detect a single positive case in our testing

The college's approved budget for 2019/2020 was $62 million, but only 60 million was spent because the state withheld 20% of the last quarters funds.

To date, the state has not provided tax support funds to the campuses yet.

So our spending on all funds basis for the current year is about $15 million 31.3 6 million in tuition and broad base fees 7.5 million from revenue generated by special campus special revenue accounts, and about $11 million from accumulated reserves.

Managing spending is crucial using things such as a hiring freeze.

Schools can expect a 20% loss in funding for this year however We achieved 99.5% of our headcount goal in terms of enrollment the college.

The college received about $5.5 million in federal Cares Act funding in the spring, half is earmarked as non-tuition awards to students affected by COVID-19. And the other half was to be used by the institution to recover expenses related to the pandemic. 

We Received $451,000 in institutional aid for its status as a minority serving institution. And, and also received student award funding totaling $2.75 million. Now, the college has awarded approximately $962,000 or 35% of the funds that are available to direct directly to students.

Students are encouraged to apply for funding that has been allocated to them.

Budget numbers in the report will be distributed to faculty.



 V. Provost’s Report 

Middle State report, all working groups are thanks for their worked and the schedule has stayed pretty much on track.

Report to evaluation team chair, more polished report will be available two weeks before her preliminary visit which will be on November 18th and 19th 

Interfolio is one of the things that we put in place at this time to support faculty workflow, particularly in the faculty review process. It has the potential to be a multifunctional solution for a number of faculty workflow.

We are invested in advancing our strategic plan.

Faculty Showcase is coming up soon.

Introduction of New Faculty 

Patrick O’brien- accounting taxation and law department 

Solomon Chuck- biological sciences department 

Kitting Kuhn- biological sciences department 

Robert Nevison- history and philosophy

Chante Hope- Library

Renu balion? mathematics and computer and information sciences department 

Shibuti Rhianna mathematics and computer and information sciences department

Lisa Lewin- management marketing and finance department 

Anhil Laura?- Modern Languages department

Eric Benau- Psychology department 

Sara Caimans- Psychology department 



VI. UUP Report 

Requesting a photo array of faculty in their UUP masks in the upcoming newsletter.

Looking at ways to mandate testing.

Come to UUP with any and all questions and concerns.

Take into consideration the vulnerability in adjunct faculty when thinking about cutting course sections for next semester.

VII. Committee Reports: 

Green Committee – Maureen Dolan 

It has been 10 years since SUNY OW had a campus wide green committee.

35 members, 13 faculty, 12 staff, 10 students.

Explained the various acronyms found in the report.

The committee engages the campus community to advance a Westbury as a green campus, and that those initiatives are consistent with our strategic goals with our mission and vision, and we pursue best practices and campus sustainability.

They also support all the SUNY and state goals related to energy and the environment and climate action.

Highlights of the report were given but the entire report is available for all to read.

Initiative wise; There was a lot of effort put into foods, local food sourcing, food security issues. The Justice Garden was an planned and halted due to Covid-19.

Some groups also worked on recycling issues.

Students worked together on very important research, a competition in the spring called transforming tomorrow 2020, looking for students to submit climate solutions. 

Students working with Ali Ebrahimi working to develop Old Westbury, Green, The committee website, very important to disseminate information to link everybody to resources, to NYSERDA, to our green partners, throughout the state in the country.

  VIII. Faculty Governance Orientation 

Introduction to Faculty Senate 

All committee chairs were invited to introduce themselves to the new faculty and gave a brief introduction about their committee

Executive Committee introduced themselves by name

CAP- Royoko Yamamoto

TLRC-Eric Hagen

LEC- Danielle Lee

ARPT- Shimizu

APPC- Sheyi Oladypo 

FUAC- Ali Ebrahimi

Introduction to SUNY Governance 

Strategic Planning Committee.

FJC- Chris Hartman

SLC- Laurie Morris

IT Governance