From: SUNY Chief Academic Officers Discussion List <SUNYACAO@LS.SYSADM.SUNY.EDU> on behalf of Rodriguez, Zulaika <Zulaika.Rodriguez@suny.edu>
Sent: Wednesday, February 7, 2018 3:29 PM
To: SUNYACAO@LS.SYSADM.SUNY.EDU
Subject: Final Report of the Micro-Credentialing Task Force; SUNY Trustee Endorsement

 

MEMORANDUM

 

To:  SUNY Campus Presidents & Chief Academic Officers

 

From:  Grace Wang, Interim Provost and Vice Chancellor for Research & Economic Development

 

Subject:  Final Report of the Micro-Credentialing Task Force; SUNY Trustee Endorsement

 

I am pleased to attach the final version of the SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations. My thanks to all who responded during the open comment period for your insights and suggestions; the Report is stronger as a result of your feedback. The Task Force writing team worked diligently to maintain the report’s overall focus on campus flexibility while also adding more clarity and specificity in certain areas as requested. The SUNY definition of micro-credentials has been streamlined, more examples have been added throughout the report, and a new section has been added on campus/community engagement in the micro-credential development process.  My thanks to the Task Force and writing team for its outstanding work.

 

During the January 2018 SUNY Board of Trustees meeting, the SUNY Trustees unanimously voted to endorse the definitions and taxonomy of terms, guiding principles, and recommendations of the Task Force. We talked about how micro-credentials align with a key priority identified by Chancellor Johnson—individualized learning.  It is clear that the wide array of possibilities available through micro-credentials can afford students with an opportunity to differentiate their learning experience. The webcast of the SUNY Trustees’ Academic Affairs meeting can be accessed here: https://livestream.com/hvccstreaming/BOTJan2018.

 

We encourage you to read the report in its entirety; however, as a starting point, we have also prepared a brief summary document that highlights key excerpts from the report. Both documents, along with a copy of the resolution adopted by the SUNY Trustees, are attached. Note too that a System webpage has been established for micro-credentialing at: http://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/microcredentials.

 

Look for announcements soon about information sessions and webinars that will discuss the report and highlight micro-credentials in practice. We will also shortly be sharing the charge/membership of four implementation working groups that will focus on the following areas: Review of Related SUNY Policies/Financial Aid Practices; Readiness & Assessment Tools; Data Reporting Framework; and Transcripts and Portability.

 

Please help share this message broadly. Please contact Cynthia Proctor, Director of Communications and Academic Policy Development, with any questions about the Task Force Report or next steps at: cynthia.proctor@suny.edu.

 

Copy:   Campus Governance Leaders

Financial Aid Directors

Registrars

Business Officers

Career Development Officers

Library Directors

President, University Faculty Senate

President, Faculty Council of Community Colleges

President, SUNY Student Assembly

SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force