STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Full Faculty Meeting
Friday, March 5, 2021
12:30 p.m. - 2:25 p.m.
Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie
D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), John
Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large
(SAS)), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina
Gilic (EE, Senator-At-Large (SOE)), Deepa Jani (EN), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Renu Balyan
(MACS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Rose Muzio (PEL), Sarah Smith (PH), Erik Benau (PY), Curtis
Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA, TLRC), Jillian Crocker (ARPT), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Danielle Lee
(LEC), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Bonnie
Eannone (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Oluwademilade
Ogunlade (SGA), Llana Barber (AS)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Timothy Sams (President), Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP),
Frank Pizzardi (VPEnroll), Usama Shaikh (VPSA), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam
(Dean SOB), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE)
Faculty Present:, Lisa Chin, Margaret Torrell, Elena Smirnova, Lorenz Neuwirth, Ashok
Basawapatna, Orquidea Morales, Myong Kim, Youngjoo Kim, Ozgur Akgun, Svetlana Jovic,
Patricia Harris, Rahwa Haile, Nicole Sieben, Shebuti Rayana, Patrick Cadet, Edward Bever, Rachel
Kalish, Claudia Marin Andrade, Keisha Goode, Timothy Strout, Joanne Spadaro, Betty Berbari,
Martha Livingston, Manya Mascareno, Gilda Zwerman, Kinning Poon, Juan Pablo Galvis, Robert
Hoyte, Carol Quirke, Tejas Bouklas, Solomon Chak, Wayne Edwards, Yogesh More, Jermaine
Archer, Patrick O'Brien, Thomas Lilly, Lisa Payton, Ashlee Lien, Thomas Rico
Visitors: Dinorah Martinez, Evan Kobolakis, Malini Kumar, Barbara Hillery, Cris Notaro, Anthony
Barbera, Danielle Collins
Roster of Senators Absent: Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Laura Anker (FY),
Fernando Guerrero (ML), Hana Elgoarany (SGA)

AGENDA
0.Zoom Room Opens at 12:15
I. Call to Order 12:30

II. Approval of Minutes for September 25, 2020
● Minutes accepted as amended.
III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report
● Wishes to get more people involved in faculty governance.
● Bylaws revisions are underway, a major focus is to resurrect the Budget Committee,
and to put the strategic planning group into the bylaws.
● Issue related to consultation clause, looking at modifications to that as well.
● New draft resolutions that will be brought to the senate as soon as they are ready.
● A new task force will be created for the purpose to address some of the issues
regarding innovation labs.
● New task of hiring new full time faculty has been taken over by President Sams as
well as trying to improve the ratio of full time faculty to contingent faculty at the
college. There will also be a task force and a charge that has been drafted for this as
well.
● Very successful visit by the SUNY Chancellor this week. The purpose of the visit was
to applaud our institution for its work on re enrolling students who had actually left
the institution.
● Purpose of today’s meeting, to address the need to widen the circle to get more
faculty members involved in governance activities. We want as many people as
possible to run for all of the different committees within faculty governance.
IV. President’s Report
● Thanks the chair of faculty senate for all of his hard work and dedication.
● Highlighted the Chancellor’s visit and how the faculty played a pivotal role in getting
student re-enrolled.
● Milli O’key, in financial aid, has done a really great job in chairing the committee
that focuses on our return to complete program.
● Full time faculty task force as well as the campus planning group will be populated
soon, a letter from the president’s office will go out to those invited to join the task
force.
● Reiterated a point from the chair’s report about faculty involvement and engagement.
Attempting to engage tenured faculty.
● Introduced instrument that will be used called Performance Plan to Budget.
● Used by a number of schools, it originated out of the Department of Defense. But it is
a quite transparent process for managing an institution.
V. Provost’s Report
● Makes a request to remember what makes Old Westbury unique, which is the faculty.
● The course schedule, go live on Monday. It will have an associated FAQ
communication with it.
● Qualtrics is now in our institution, we have an enterprise license, it was in this initial
stage, funded out of cares Act funding, it was in a direct response to consultation with
the faculty concerning the need and value for it.
● All faculty have access to a Qualtrics account.
● Re-enroll to Complete, which was a program that the Chancellor was here on Monday
acknowledge.

● Acknowledges, the faculty for what is an ongoing initiative for open educational
resources. The number of courses where the course material is essentially Open
Educational Resources has roughly doubled.
● We saved students, approximately $150,000 in textbook costs.
● Mike Kavic and I have had a conversation about launching a faculty lecture series as
part of an outreach and service to school districts. Helping to have the faculty play a
more proactive part in our enrollment efforts
● Ed Bever: For anyone advising students please remember summer term. Registration
actually starts on March 17, earlier than the regular semesters.
● Financial aid is available for students in the summer if they take six or more credits.
● Thanks programs that initiated micro credentials. We now have eleven over all.
● Anthony Barbera: Middle States announcement: Virtual Middle States visit starts on
March 21, and goes through March 24
● Yesterday’s copy of the Current there is a progress report, which describes an update
of what's going on. It also includes links to the self-study report that we submitted,
and also to the Middle States standards.
● Nothing's definite yet, but there will probably be a meeting with the faculty senate
Executive Committee, that will probably first focus on standard seven.
● There will be an open faculty meeting on March 22nd and there could be a meeting
with committee chairs
● They used our self-study report to draft their own report and confirm what the report
says as well as answer any questions regarding it.
VI. UUP Report
● Any issues anyone needs to raise can be emailed and put on the agenda for next
Wednesday’s meeting.
● The individual development award process has begun, you all should have received
an email about the next round of awards.
● So statewide, some folks had been granted funding and the funding did not come,
There is some pushback from UUP and the work is ongoing
● Governors telecommunication policy is set to expire on April 2. We are still unsure
how things will be in the fall and which modalities would be offered
● There's the issue that was raised about faculty being on campus two days a week as a
general practice and principle. If it is safe, UUP is in support of coming back to
campus.
● UUP would like to see more involvement in Union activities.
VII. SGA Report
● SGA CFO: SGA budget is finalized for this semester with a 29% reduction due to
COVID.
● SGA finalized all the clubs, that organization budget hearing appointments. The clubs
are almost ready for next year's I could for next academic years programming and
events.
● Fun programs like SGA awards and Rock Climbing.
● Attempting to find tutors for graduate exams and finding subsidies for these
programs.
● Co-sponsorship application available on presence. For faculty that need extra money
to put on a program.

● Director of clubs and organizations for SGA: introduced herself.
● SGA elections are coming up in a couple of weeks.
● SGA awards will be pre-recorded next Friday and will air during SGA week April
22nd
VIII. FRRC annual report
● Faculty Rights and Responsibility
● We hear student and faculty complaints
● We hold workshops on various topics one of which turned into a townhall
● Annual report attached in email announcement for this meeting
IX. Committee Presentations
● APPC: Academic Policies and Practices Committee: Recommend policies and
practices, they also facilitate the academic standing hearings. At the moment the
APPC is working on the credit no credit issue and whether cameras should be
mandatory in clsses
● ARPT- overview is available on the faculty senate website. 3 categories: (One) :we
review candidates for appointment reappointment, promotion and tenure, and we
make recommendations to the president through the provost. ARPT is an advisory
body so we don't make decisions. We review files and department evaluations
according to the criteria laid out in the manual, and we make recommendations.
(two): provides the tools and the timetables for RBT reviews and the committee
maintains the ARPT manual. (Three): support departments and schools and thereby
candidates by encouraging and ensuring meaningful, regular and consistent faculty
assessment. Everyone is encouraged to get involved unless you are up for
reappointment in the year you want to get involved.
● CAP: relates to the curriculum and academic planning. Four Major Areas. (one) the
review of the new programs (two) review of existing academic programs in the form
of five year reviews (three) curriculum related policies and (four) Reviewing new
lines. Diversity is extremely important on CAP: restriction in membership in terms
that only one person from each academic department can serve on CAP.
● FUAC: faculty University awards committee: we have a call that comes down every
two years from SUNY Central, that gives us the guidelines for awards at the staff
level and professional level, with respect to adjuncts for teaching. Also, with
scholarship and for service for faculty, they also have distinguished awards at the
same level. We work as a group to basically identify and recognize faculty who excel
in all these levels consistent with the guidelines from SUNY and look towards setting
up records and ledger's to make sure that our college has an ongoing, chronological
record of these faculty who are most recognized for the stellar work that they do on
our campus.
● LEC: Liberal Education Committee. Plan out best learning practices for our students.
They meet once a week, they approve courses, help with assessment of those courses.
Also do the work of revising learning outcomes.
● TLRC: broad charge to help with excellence in teaching among all ranks with the
faculty. Includes all the schools as well as the library.
● FJC: provide a pool of faculty that serve on the conduct board hearings, and also
provide a mechanism by which we can have a liaison with the Director of Student
Conduct who's Kathleen Lieblich. And make sure that the Student Conduct process as

a whole is effective, efficient and fair. The work has been exclusively for students in
the dorms. There are 11 seats open in the upcoming election.
● Student Life Committee: strives to be a bridge between the faculty and the students.
And then also further with that, with the administration as well. The committee looks
to aims and concerns not only in the classroom in the lab in the studio in a lecture
hall, but beyond that, you know, beyond that initial intersection with faculty. Plays a
critical role in ensuring that the college is aware of what the students face on the day
to day.
● PARITY: Faculty Committee to Promote Anti-Racism Initiatives This YEAR: we're
an ad hoc committee. Number one goal really is to promote and implement
anti-racism initiatives on campus. The goal is to create a campus where black Latina
x and all Old Westbury, students, faculty, and community members feel valued, feel
cherished, and welcomed, One thing that we focus on is envisioning and inspiring
policies and programs that really foster a campus that is intentionally anti-racist. And
that really positively transforms the lives of black, brown and all students. Secondly,
we envision, inspire, lobby for policies and also sustain policies that increase
diversity and actively create equity and inclusion.
● OER: also an ad hoc committee. Sanctioned by faculty senate, a resolution was put
forth. The committee creates policies and procedures for development and
implementing OER, we review course syllabi for tagging, for registering the course in
the registration system, and to also register the courses with SUNY. They also help
assessing materials for faculty. Furthermore, set policies for the allocation of SUNY
OER our funding when it's available.
● IT Governance Committee: includes two faculty members appointed by the
president. IT governance committee is supposed to establish the strategic operational
and technical decision making processes related to employing technology, which
enables the college to achieve its mission and objectives. They meet once a month,
the role of the two faculty reps is really just to make sure that the decisions being
made about funding and implementation of IT projects reflect faculty interests.
X. Announcements
XI. Adjournment