STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, November 1, 2002

12:30pm - 2:30pm

Room C102, Academic Village

Agenda
Approval of Minutes for Friday, October 18, 2002

[5 minutes]

Report from Faculty Senate Chair (R. Colon-Urban)

[5 minutes]

_ Report from the President

[10 minutes]

Report from the Academic Vice President

[10 minutes]

University Faculty Senate Report (M.Dolan)

[15 minutes]

UUP Report (C. Franco)

[5 minutes]

SGA Report

[5 minutes]

Old Business

[5 minutes]

New Business

[5 minutes]

** All Faculty are Welcome**

SUNY/COLLEGE at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, October 18, 2002
12:30 p.m-2: 30 p.m.

Room C 102 Academic Village
Present: R. Colon-Urban, K.Velsor,

M. Crocitto,

K. Wood,

P. O’Sullivan, L. Davis, M.

Marquez Bell, M. Barrett, J. Conforti, R. J. Edelson, C. Bernard, C. Franco, I. Ahmed, A.

Martinéz, B. Joseph, S. Pryor, B. Hillery, M. Keizer,C. Hobson, M.Keefe, R. Kalmans, H.

Lewittes, G. Snedeker, S. O’Connor, C. Bernard, M. Miller-Lamb

Visitors:

1.

C. Wardell, M. Kinane, R. Gonzalez, N. Sacks, M. Rankin

Approval Of The Minutes for Friday, October 4, 2002
The minutes were unanimously approved with the correction of typographical errors and
attachment of the resolution Jn Support of Civil Liberties at SUNY New Paltz.
Report from Faculty Senate Chair (R. Colon-Urban)

a) The resolution concerning New Paltz was not added to the minutes of the previous

meeting. The Chair requested that any resolutions be brought to the Executive Committee
at least one week before presentation. This allows for a wide distribution and examination
by all senators who may have a better understanding of the proposed resolutions.

b)

The University Senate is meeting in Purchase 10/18 and 10/19. The Executive
Committee is always invited. They will be discussing the budget process, campus
allocations, etc. Randy Daniels (trustee friendly to Old Westbury), Chancellor King and
David DeMarco will be attending. Maureen Dolan, our University Senator, will present a
report on the campus budget process. She will give the Old Westbury Faculty Senate a
summary as an agenda item for the November Ist meeting. Joe Hildress noted this
meeting is important, as next year will be more difficult than this past year.
Alfred State College will merge with Alfred University.
approved the merger and there are union concerns.

Their Faculty Senate has not

The Old Westbury Foundation held a breakfast for new members. Mea Knapp, an alumna
who has also worked in our Admissions Office, is now a member. The nominations for

membership are open.

Nominations should be sent to Richard Brown’s office.

The College Council met last Wednesday. Dr. Butts gave a report about enrollments and
provided information already shared with Senate.
There was a legislative breakfast supported by UUP for local legislators so that they will
support our case when the budget comes up.
In the University Senate there is a Local Governance Leaders Association which tries to
coordinate issues, policies, and practices of individual campuses with those of the full
Faculty Senate. They collect information about By-laws, etc. The Old Westbury Chair
worked on a developing a Faculty Senate Website. The site includes members of the |

Committee, By-laws and the University Senate
local campuses for “best practices” guidelines.
website and offer links. One link suggested by
Higher Education. Any other ideas about what

By-laws. University Senate is reviewing
We can post announcements on our
Stephen Kirkpatrick is to the Chronicle of
should appear on the Faculty Senate

website, please e-mail urbanr@oldwestbury.edu

3.

Report from the President
The President was representing the College at the Community Development Corporation of
Long Island, which precluded his arrival before the end of the meeting.

4.

Report from the Academic Vice President (P. O’Sullivan)
a)

b)
c)

The State Education Department (SED) will likely conduct a readiness review site visit in
November. Cannot get SED approval without a visit and cannot advertise without such
approval. It is an evaluation as to whether the institution is ready to deliver a Master’s
level program at the quality, operational, curricular, and faculty level. They also look at
the Library, technology, and individual degree programs. SED will intensively look at
Business and Teacher Education.
The consolidation and merge of CIS, math, business will proceed without major issues.
The AVP expects it should be finished without problems by the end of the semester.
Concerning Middle States, Judy Walsh, Chair and Rita (was Co-chair of last Middle

States Committee and participated in writing the report) will meet and set up an agenda
for the first meeting. This is for the update report due April 1, 2003.
Dr. O’Sullivan expressed his appreciation to the DSI Committee, which will complete
their work later today. The report will be sent to the Office of Academic Affairs, which
will review it and send recommendations to the President, probably next week. The AVP

d)

noted that historically, there is little deviation from the recommendations of the

Committee and the actual awards.
Questions/Comments

Issues discussed at the October 16" meeting will be reported on by Dr. Butts. The AVP
recommended the exhibition in gallery and thanked Cathy Wardell for her work on it.
5.

Report from Secretary/Treasurer (M. Crocitto)
The Faculty Fund is at $1,050.81. The Faculty voted unanimously to donate $50.00 to the
Old Westbury Foundation Suzanne Anderson Poetry Award and to send a fruit basket to a
faculty member.

6.

Report from UUP (C. Franco)
a)
b)

Weare in the process of negotiating a new contract as our present one expires June 30".
visit to our campus from the negotiating team on October 10" was to get input about
what we would like to see in the new contract.
The UUP co-sponsored an administrative breakfast for legislators to advocate for the
college in their home districts. The budget next year will be more difficult than this year
due to an $8 to $12 billion dollar deficit. After 9/11/01 we had an $8 billion gap, but had
a $4 billion surplus to address needs. There is no surplus this year.

A

c)

We will stand-by to see what issues arise from the merger of Alfred State. If mutually
convenient we will go along with it and if not, resources will be used to benefit members.

Questions and Discussion
Alfred will remain a public school but not sure which half will be public and which half
private. We would like to keep our resources within the SUNY system.
There was a question as to why long term adjuncts, i.e., more than six semesters over three
years, who are contractually entitled to full-year contracts have received semester contracts.
The College may award that because language in the contract is vague and doesn’t create an
obligation on the part of the College for such contracts. C. Franco spoke to Human
Resources about this as was informed the College needs options to close the deficit. This
issue has been raised in new contract discussions.
Questionnaires may be filled out in paper or on-line version in time for results to be used at
the November 8-10" meeting. B. Hillery noted UUP now has software to compile results so
they are more flexible about the deadline.
Regarding political endorsements, NYSUT membership split and they didn’t endorse a
candidate. Most NYSUT members are K-12 teachers and Governor Pataki has been good to
them. In NYSUT, we are the only local who negotiates directly with the governor’s office.
The Board of Directors of NYSUT

surveyed members who recommended McCall, but

NYSUT decided not to endorse anyone.
didn’t come out and support anyone.

UUP delegates wanted to support McCall 5 to 1 but

Assessment (H. Lewittes)
a)

There are two kinds of assessment.
1) Assessment of major within the department
The plan and results are reviewed by the assessment committee and are tied to CAP’s
five-year review process and external evaluation. We are required as part of the fiveyear review process to have external evaluators. Last June, we submitted the first
round of assessment, which was accepted. We are working on the departmental
assessment for this June. The assessment plan has to be available a year in advance
in order to be available for review by CAP and the external evaluator.
CAP tried to separate the process out for a year for assessment and self-study.
SUNY is adamant in that they want the external evaluator and assessment reports
submitted together. In order for external evaluators to have the assessment, it has to
be accomplished a semester before, minimally, and, preferably, a year before. SUNY
is asking for a June submission - if we wait to end of semester have two weeks in
May to have assessment done.
Other due date is April when Middle States visits. Each department has to have a
viable assessment plan. Right now we do not have it, maybe have a total of five.
2) General Education
Assessment of General Education is now accomplished through the Committee and
domain representatives. SUNY mandates a three-year cycle. Within two years we have
to assess all of the knowledge areas part of the SUNY program, or all of the courses ©

accepted by SUNY, or all courses in a domain plus an approved Social Science and
Humanities course approved by SUNY. Data collection is this semester and again in May
make it tight to reach the June deadline.
It started as a plan where General Education
therefore, could use either a single course or
example in Math, can use proficiency exam
courses in two or three departments making
each course will have its own measure.

corresponded with a department and,
a measure that applied to all courses. For
as measure. Now some domains have
it difficult to develop a uniform measure;

Anyone teaching a course in General Education will have to participate in the assessment.
Will take a sample; if your course isn’t in sample, will help with scoring.

b)

Assessment is becoming a workload issue. SUNY has provided no funds. All people in
departments and Gen Ed Committee have to do this. This is particularly an issue for
departments with adjuncts who will have to assess their course. Asking adjuncts to
participate in scoring goes beyond the pale. This is an issue now with ELS, whose
adjuncts can’t get through without teacher evaluation and who will pay adjuncts for this
extra work.
Farmingdale was held as a model for General Education Assessment Review Committee.
Their administration made it a major initiative but faculty are doing the work. This is an
issue for untenured faculty with one-year contracts who are less able to raise objections.
Centralized somewhat arbitrary control is coming from GEAR (General Education
Appointed Review Committee),which is an appointed faculty committee to review
General Education assessment plans. Each subgroup makes decisions and it isn’t clear
which decisions are coming from the subgroup or entire committee. We don’t have
access to the process or the substance of Committee discussions.
SUNY-wide Senate and Old Westbury Senate voted that we should not report what
percentage of students met the standards. However, a form from GEAR asks that we
report the percentages. The union, Statewide Senate, and AVP, are going to have to take
a stance on what we will and won’t do.
Questions and Discussion
In response to a question about the involvement of adjuncts with one-semester contracts
who are paid less and asked to do more, H. Lewittes noted we are asking adjuncts for
measures but not scoring. C. Hobson noted a request for money for norming sessions to
provide interobserver reliability went without a reply. Outside evaluators come in for a
day and get paid $300 - $500 dollars. You have a right to choose the external evaluator.
H. Lewittes will bring up questions to the Gen Ed Committee and report back to Senate.
Resolution regarding OSSD (K. Velsor)
The attached resolution was read.
esti

n

ments

The AVP asked if there was study done to assess impact of shift services to Academic
Affairs. K. Velsor noted a recent UUP report recommended disabilities services for

students should be housed in Academic Affairs as academic services are provided. This
is the case at CUNY. AVP noted it was not so at Stony Brook and Farmingdale. Is there
a set of problems that will fixed with shift to AA? M. Barrett stated there are problems
providing technology to accommodate disabled students. Most services that OSSD
provides are academic services analogous to Math Lab, etc. Some SUNYs have the office

report to Student Affairs, others Academic Affairs. May be 25% of our students have
unrecognized special needs. Also issue for students who are not recognized can’t go
anywhere on campus to get help.

The AVP wanted on the record that he is not sure that the presumption that problems can
be handled and resolved quickly would be done, given all the constituencies they have to

serve.

M. Barrett wanted the resolution clarified in the case of hiring of the Assistant Director of
OSSD so that the job’s tasks and responsibilities in the majority provide direct service to
students. Vote: Yes (20), No (1), Abstentions (0).
9.

Student Government Report
No representative from Student Government was available and there was no report.

10. Old Business
The resolution Jn Opposition to the Bush Administration’s Plan for War against Iraq was
brought forward by a group and needs no second.
Questions and Comments
There was a discussion about energy supplies, the spread of the war to other countries in
the Middle East, and whether credible evidence exists about weapons of mass destruction
in Iraq. A friendly amendment by Mari Miller-Lamb that the resolution include a
Whereas, going to war would put our students and family member in the military at risk
was unanimously approved. The resolutions passed: Yes (16), No (2), Abstentions (2).
11. New Business
Kate Velsor thanked the Safety Aides for their assistance in evacuating the building
during the fire alarm on 10/16.
Please view the exhibit organized by D. Papademas in the library.
Nancy Sacks invited attendance to the on-campus play “Greenwood” produced by Mandy
Friskin in American Studies.
M. Barrett requested assistance for a needy student with excess contributions going to the
Faculty Fund.
B. Joseph asked that a resolution dated October 9" be distributed.
J. Edelson. Copies of Catalyst are not distributed in C Wing.
S. O’Connor invited faculty to attend the Common Hour activity in D 228 at 10:50 a.m.
“How to Integrate Technology in the Classroom.”
The meeting was adjourned at 2:30 p.m.