SUNY OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, February 15, 2019 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes 



Senators Present:

Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Dana Tomlin  (Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), John Kleinman (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Priscila Ortega (SGA), Laura Anker (FY), Linval Frazer (AC), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gilic (EE), Lisa Payton (AS), Deepa Jani (EN), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY), Chris Hartman (PH), Lee Blackstone (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Patty Harris (LEC), Laura Limonic (APPC), Jillian Crocker (TLRC), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:

Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP Advancement), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS)



Senators Absent:

Joseph Foy (Senator-At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator-At-Large), Manya Mascareno (Senator-At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator-At-Large), William Gillis (University Senator Alternate), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Amna Kamil (SGA), Taj Ford (SGA), Sara Williamson (MMF), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Jillian Nissen (BS), Camile Jones (CP), Jingyi Song (HP), Christopher Hobson (ARPT)



Visitors:

Cris Notaro, Anthony Barbera, Hugh Fox, Claudia M. Andrade





			0.	Meeting arrival and sign in	12:20 p.m.

			

			I.	Call to Order	12:30 p.m.		

			

			Point of Order: Senate business requiring a vote cannot be conducted until a quorum is reached. The approval of minutes is postponed. Agenda is moved to next item, Chair’ report. 

			

			III.	Chair’s report	

			We need a Vice Chair! The position is vacant. Any full-time faculty member of Senate can serve. 

			What is required? Showing up to Executive Committee meetings, about two per month, where we plan the agenda. The Vice Chair will get to meet SUNY Provost Tod Laursen next Friday morning. 

			It is a crucial role. The vice chair fills in for Senate Chair when the chair is not available.  

			Helps to get faculty senate business done. Vice chair of senate is serious college service. 

			Later in the agenda, Maureen will ask for nominations for vice chair.

			In assessment of faculty governance, it will be an issue if we cannot get people to participate in faculty governance. 

			We now have a quorum! Agenda is move back to approval of minutes.

			

			II.	Approval of Minutes for February 1, 2019	

			            

			Zenaida Madurka should be recorded under Senator Absent 

			Minutes accepted as amended

			

			IV.    	Special Order of Business: Nominations & Election of Vice Chair	

			The Chair has already reported that we have not yet received nominations.

			The Parliamentarian asked for any nominations or self-nominations from the floor. 

			Hearing none, the item will be postponed until a subsequent meeting. 

				 

			

			V.	Provost’s Report	

			During his time Jacob Heller and Cris Notaro will speak for Academic Affairs.

			Jacob spoke about Ad Astra: the college has a contract with Ad Astra analytics. Will give us student demand-based analysis of what courses we need to offer in subsequent semester. 

			On Monday there was a training session on how to use and access the dash board. And what we can expect on re-enrollment 

			Looks like it will be scheduled for the week after, anyone interested in how to use it, please email him.

			They now have included data for our students registered this semester 

			Every department checks this based on prerequisites and how much needs to be added

			What Ad Astra does is to provide actual data for our students that are enrolled this year

			They have access to degree audits and historical data about what students like them have register over the last 5 years

			They create student avatars based on student data

			Based on the past experiences, when it is fully up and running it will give us the basis for saying we need to offer another section or to cut back on section of a certain class

			Jacob is handling schedule on the Academic Affairs end.

			For him it will be enormously helpful and be ready for spring 2020 schedule

			The idea is to use the student demand model to help student graduate on time

			Chris Notaro- about early alert campaign. Early intervention for student struggling. Collaboration between faculty and academic advisors

			Asking faculty to identify students struggling

			A faculty member can issue an alert on a student called Navigate, you have the ability to pull up roster and identify student in trouble and information is sent to advisor who will reach out to student

			Also used by them outreaching to faculty, asking them to pull up roster and identify student

			Allowing them to engage in proper intervention with student

			Handout passed out about how to access the information that will allow you to do it 

			There will be training next week on Navigate

			Incredibly important about how we can capture students earlier. Midterm time is too late for intervention.

			Question: inside Navigate, he sees 14 students and wants to know who they are. It will be explained in the training

			Navigation information does not go to the student but it goes to Cris Notaro and opens up cases for the advisors

			If we contact a student and there is some resolution, then they can also close the case

			Question: she is not sure as to what was done with the student besides knowing the case was closed

			They make multiple attempts to reach out to the students, but not all answer. In the history you can see if contact was made. You do not see a case closed until advisor is comfortable with the resolution. 

			Contact her if you have a question

			VI.	University Faculty Senator’s Report (Laurette Morris)	

			All things she is referring to you are in hand outs and in email

			Cobleskill: two main things dominated, money budget crisis/funding issues. 

			3 schools are currently taking out a loan with SUNY with 4 more in process

			Why do we borrow money from SUNY if we are part of SUNY?

			SUNY wants to keep us so they help, NYS doesn’t care and will just shut them down

			Increasing enrollment, and difficulty with retention arose too

			Mental health issues were topics not always academic problems

			Working full time impacts student success in the class rooms

			Some campuses are doing things like Oswego, totally online programs in winter session.

			Fredonia, applying for a loan, 13 programs are being cut

			Generally we express concern that liberal arts programs will be scarified for bio medical and tech programs

			Recommended at both meetings that we can lobby both local and state representative. Do not use old Westbury emails. We are just regular citizens if you are willing to lobby

			The other issue that dominated was the SUNY online initiative which was a big deal for the Chancellor. Board of Trustees loves it, fully online programs, especially master’s degree programs fully online 

			Later this spring we will get vendor reports 

			SUNY enrollment report from 1995 to 2016, she only printed out our enrollment status. There was enrollment decline 1995-2000, then increase that jumps significantly around 2008 and steadily increasing.

			Fewer full time and more part time graduate students 

			You can compare us to other campuses and does not include excelsior increase because data stops in 2016

			Sexual harassment policy, they were not clear on what the role of HR and the union is

			Four resolutions were considered. Always the last part of the UFS plenary sessions 

			1: change of length of service for distinguished professors, was approved

			2: whether or not we should have an ombudsperson. This generated the most debate. An ombudsperson really deals with local problems and does not offer legal advice, so even though not every campus can afford one, resolution was voted down.

			3: with regard to the State of NY to recognize the need for more funding, cut a new deal to find out what the role of SUNY is, initiated by Fredonia, unanimously approved

			4. Graduate funding for medical students, making DACA scholarships available for medical students. Too many issues, too many questions, why does it only apply to medical students?

			Dream act looks like it will pass and they will be eligible to TAP and things

			Looks like Cuomo will approve legalization for marijuana. So wondering what we will do about it on our campuses. And students will have to decide what to do about students using it on campus.

			There was an issue with online, and they are still working out details, they have not even figured out how to make it system wide.

			Community colleges do a lot of online courses as well.

			

			VII.   Old Business

			SPAARC Resolution, Nominees & Election 	

			SPAARC Task Force proposal was previously sent to you. Today we vote on accepting the proposal, now that the president has accepted it. 

			The resolution was written to accept the proposed plan for SPAARC (Strategic Planning Analysis Assessment and Review Committee). 

			The Faculty was ably represented on the Task Force. Faculty governance recognizes this by this resolution.

			The Chair thanks Maureen Dolan for crafting the resolution on behalf of the Executive Committee.  

			Maureen comments that proposed SPAARC is culmination of years of effort. For as long as there has been a Senate (since early 1990’s), there has been a college-wide planning and budgeting committee. This is a serious substantive matter and the resolution should be read aloud, as was standard practice in the past. 

			For senators without a printed copy, the Chair points out resolution is up on the screen as we speak. It was inadvertently not sent out with other attachments to the agenda.

			In the interest of time, and as a bare minimum, the “Whereas” clauses are all accessible on the screen. We can proceed under Robert’s Rules, since prior distribution did occur. 

			After scrolling through the first half of resolution on screen, the Chair read aloud all five resolved statements.

			Motion on the floor is seconded and approved by voice vote. Resolution is now open for discussion

			Does approving resolution mean accepting SPAARC task force proposal as written? Yes. 

			Bylaws Working Group will be convened as result of this resolution, and will undertake appropriate process to prepare SPAARC as a new college-wide committee in Appendix of Faculty Bylaws. We are here to accept the proposal for SPAAR committee. The vote today does not establish SPAAR committee as part of the Bylaws. 

			A vote to approve the resolution also supports election today, by the Faculty Senate, of the initial faculty membership of SPAARC. 

			Maureen comment: standard practice for decades was for Senate to elect the faculty reps to the various iterations of past budget/planning committees. What’s different about SPAARC is that future election of faculty reps will occur through the annual Nominations & Elections process.

			The proposal includes language that faculty on SPAARC will provide feedback and solicit input from Senate. By that process, we are thus allowing for possible changes.

			Chair suggests striking “Proposal for the” in the last resolved: 

			“Be It Further Resolved, that the Bylaws Working Group on SPAARC may recommend appropriate revisions to the Proposal for the SPAAR Committee, in consideration of past practice and due diligence in preparing for submission to the Senate and the Faculty for approval, a new college-wide committee for inclusion in the Appendix of the Faculty Bylaws.” 

			Jacob Heller: suggests that you can take out the entire last resolved because anyone can recommend revisions 

			Maureen Dolan: the last resolved provides Bylaws Working Group with flexibility. They expect feedback from SPAARC in considering possible appropriate revisions. We don’t just cut-and-paste a proposal into the bylaws. Is SPAARC able to discharge its duties effectively, as described in proposal? Not all such college-wide committees have been included in the Bylaws. Let the faculty decide.    

			Mike Kavic: saying revisions related to the Bylaws, specifically revisions related to revisions? SPAARC proposal is to be accepted as is.  

			Motion to amend the resolution by removing three words, “Proposal for the”, from the last resolved statement. Seconded. Amendment carries unanimously by voice vote. 

			Motion to close discussion. So moved and seconded.

			Motion to approve the “Resolution on Proposal for SPAAR Committee” as amended. Vote in Favor: 24, Opposed: 0, Abstentions: 0. Resolution is approved 24-0-0.  

			Nominations & Elections

			Chair now presides over immediate item of business following approval of resolution: Nominations and Elections of the initial faculty representatives to SPAAR Committee.  

			SPAARC consists of the President’s entire Cabinet, the Faculty Senate Chair ex officio, and 6 elected faculty members: 3 from Arts & Sciences, 1 from School of Business, 1 from School of Education, 1 from the Library. These are initial faculty membership, until Bylaws can be revised to include SPAARC in Appendix. Then faculty can be elected on a staggered basis, presumably in Spring of 2020. Today you elect reps on interim basis.

			We’re opening floor for nominations: anyone who wishes to nominate or self-nominate, although we do have some nominations made via email who have accepted.

			School of Arts and Sciences: Thomas Delguidice (PEL), Amanda Frisken (American Studies), Runi Mukherji (Psychology), Lori Zaikowski (Chemistry/Physics) 

			School of Business: Yu Lei (Mngt./Marketing/Finance), Linval Frazer (Accounting)

			School of Education Lina Gilic (Exceptional Learning), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education)

			Library: Jason Kaloudis 

			Comment: a senator worries that she does not know who these people are, and is being asked to vote on them blindly as members of this new committee 

			Chair replies that President has charged us to give him initial names by February 20th, whereas all of these initial faculty members will be replaced by those elected in the Nominations & Elections cycle, which will be a much longer process.

			Even if a name is not familiar to you, you can make a decision based on a diversity of issues. If there is one area that doesn’t have any representation, there should be a balance of people represented. 

			Senators were able to express their views on the initial election of SPAARC faculty reps, arising from the resolution approved today. Paper ballots were distributed for Senators to vote for: 3 of 4 SAS nominees, 1 of 2 SOB nominees, 1 of 2 SOE nominees, 1 nominee for Library.  

			Ballots were collected by members of the Executive Committee, Maureen and Laurie, who immediately began to tally the votes.

			

			LEAP Implementation Resolution – Patty Harris (chair, LEC)	

			There is a copy of the resolution in the minutes introduced last time. 

			There is a continuity to this, back in 2016, there was a resolution to take LEAP Essential outcomes, came out of GEC went to senate and has been voted on and has been quiet 

			White paper came out of SUNY evaluating gen ed program

			Institutional learning outcomes that were broader, looking for definition

			There were so many domains being covered already

			Widespread of domains, part of what middle states is suggesting, this resolution is setting up a committee to set up the leap outcomes to what already exists

			We are not there yet in terms of looking at requirements

			In terms of middle states, we doing well but need to focus more closely 

			Resolution moves forward forming a committee so that we can address the issues

			It is very timely, probably very quickly in the future it looks like they will be asked to do this in the future anyway

			Motion to call the question… all in favor

			All in favor of passing the resolution. All in favor carrying unanimously 

			

			VIII.  	New Business	

			APPC Resolution on UK-System A- and AS- Level Transfer Credit	

			Resolution is to allow for A levels and AS level exams to be counted as college credit. 

			Equivalent to AP exams in UK system

			As we see students in the UK system from other countries and we wish to give them the same ability to use their AP exams for college credit just as the American students can

			Being left open to the department

			The resolution is asking for the inclusion of A and AS credits that are equivalent to American AP classes

			The resolution was placed on the screen and left open for discussion

			Senator is in favor for this. It is specified in the UK documents and how it aligns 

			This is for transfer credit for the results on an exam? So, students can take AP exams in high school for college credit, they wish for UK students to have same opportunity

			Some schools have a procedure for these students but we have not and now we want one

			Departments choose how many credits for that exam. This allows the students to bring these classes to show to Old Westbury, as opposed to not being able to use them at all.

			This deals with a population of students who are not usually considered for credit, it widens the net and allows us to become more inclusive. 

			Everyone seems in accordance with the resolution 

			Call the question! All in favor of the APPC resolution. Resolution passes by acclimation.

			

				Consensual Relationship policy	

				Laurie Morris went to Plenary and they told her to bring back comment on the draft SUNY consensual relationship policy. The UUP representative said was, you don’t have to do anything, we are going to take care of it

				Bill Kimmins said we are done, we are letting SUNY and UUP handle this at higher level

				For governance, what do we want to do for feedback on consensual relationship policy

				Do we need to engage in some sort of formal process?

				She has asked senators to bring back feedback from your departments

				Maximum, governance convenes a committee to write out own policy

				Chair wants to know what we should do. Does anybody have any feedback from departments? There were 11 responses to survey.

				Question raised: is Student Life Committee looking into this? 

				We could ask them, ask a committee to look into this, or create an ad hoc group.

				Why create a new committee when we can clearly use student life and ask for their recommendations? 

				Maybe a joint committee of student life and faculty life and responsibilities 

				The way the proposal is written, it's not just relationships with students but with employees as well.

				Are these committees addressing SUNY policy or one we create? The draft policy is given but can be changed. Either SUNY policy, a version of it or a new one must created

				Do you want your executive committee to ask the two committees to look into this?

				In Laura Anker’s mind, we have always worked at Old Westbury with a dual process, this is important enough where we should talk about it, what our values are, it really has standing in that sense that we agree with it, understand it and talk about it

				FRRC and student life are going to look into this and have an open discussion

				Does this require a resolution? YES. The EC will draft a resolution or any one of you can and it will be entered into the record at the next meeting.

				What is the deadline? March 1 deadline, but SUNY is still discussing and they expect some kind of policy in place 

				In order to meet March 1 deadline everyone must email her their comments

				SLC Claudia Marin Andrade: Dean of students asked to be invited into the meeting

				

				CAP Resolution: “Storing Program Review and Assessment Reports with Academic Affairs”.	 

				Presented into record so they can be discussed at next meeting. CAP is bringing 3 resolutions.

				Records that we store are in a personal thumb drive. Sometimes it’s hard to trace back history, what we do in CAP, in reports submitted every 5 years on the nose in every department. We take them and submit them to Academic Affairs and someone asked to see it and if you don’t know who the previous chair was, then it’s hard… just asking for library to be established 

				CAP Resolution: Combined B.A./M.A.T. in Chem. Adolescence Ed.	 

				5-year combined program, BA in chemistry and a master’s in education, we offer this program we are just making a 5 year program

				CAP Resolution: Combined B.S. /M.A.T. in Bio. Adolescence Ed.	 

				5-year program BS in Bio, masters in education 

				Could be 5 years including summer in some cases

				Three resolutions were entered in separately and voted on and asked to be brought back to departments ready to discuss next meeting

				All resolutions were accepted into the record by acclimation 

				

				Special Order of Business: reporting of election results for SPAARC. 

				 Clear winners in following slots: Jason Kaloudis for Library, Stephanie Schneider for SOE, Linval Frazer for SOB. For Arts & Sciences, Tom Delgiudice and Amanda Frisken are two highest vote getters, with tie for third position. Need a run-off between Runi Mukherji and Lori Zaikowski. 

				 A second ballot is distributed, collected and counted. Runi Mukherji wins run-off, 14 to 8, for the third SAS slot.      

				

			IX.	Announcements  		

			April 30th Middle States representative is coming to meet with different groups

			Deepa has gotten a group of people interested in working on the Blue survey, contact Jacob or Deepa to be kept in the loop

			Faculty rights and responsibility is going to have a workshop each semester, inviting newish faculty to be there, gong over bylaws, Wednesday they will have their committee meeting, discovering how we can get the best of everything we have on this campus is the goal. One thing is the bylaws. Now that we have SPAARC, we have mandate to get involved and we have now been charged with figuring out what will make us better what can be improved. If possible please respond by Wednesday. 

			To avoid a lot of problems, we hear a lot of faculty that are unhappy. We can resolve it and have a better understanding. 

			

			X.   	Adjournment 

			

			

1