Special Meeting of the Faculty Senate
Orientation to Faculty Governance
October 19, 2018
Overview of Faculty Governance
Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
Faculty Senate Executive Committee
SUNY College at Old Westbury
Within the core mission of the State University of New York, faculty are called upon “To Learn, to Search, to Serve”.

A.



Faculty Governance: The process by which faculty participate in the overall stewardship and advancement of
the institution, including all aspects of the Educational Program, and with inputs to planning and decisions
regarding allocation of resources, campus facilities, operations and matters of campus development. Shared
Governance and Joint Effort are described in the SUNY Governance Handbook.



The Faculty Senate and the Standing and Special Committees of the Faculty are the primary means by
which the business of the Faculty is conducted. The Faculty Senate serves as the deliberative body for
organizing and carrying out the business of the Faculty. The SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Senate follows
governance standards recommended by the University Faculty Senate (UFS) of the State University of New
York, in accordance with the Policies of the Board of Trustees, State University of New York.
Organization of the Faculty Senate (as codified in the Faculty Bylaws):
 Faculty Senate Chair (also referred to as the Campus Governance Leader or CGL)
 Represents the Faculty internally and externally, including to the University Faculty Senate
 Serves as Presiding Officer of the Faculty and presides over meetings of the Faculty, the Faculty
Senate, and meetings of the Senate Executive Committee. Coordinates and serves ex officio on all
Standing Committees of the Faculty.
 Serves ex officio on the Old Westbury College Council and the Old Westbury College Foundation
Board of Trustees.
 Also serves ex officio on various college-wide and ad hoc committees: in recent years, including
service as co-chair of the Strategic Planning Process (2016-18) and in Fall 2018 as member of the
Strategic Planning Analysis, Assessment and Review (SPAAR) Task Force. In the past decade,
the Faculty Senate Chair has served ex officio on the Provost’s Task Force on Masters Degrees,
the Executive Overview Committee for New Academic Building Program Study, the Budget
Planning Committee (BPC) and Resource Allocation & Budget Planning Committee (RABPC).
 Faculty Senate Executive Committee
 Acts for the Faculty when the Faculty Senate is not in session
 In addition to the Faculty Senate Chair, the EC is comprised of the Faculty Senate Vice Chair, the
Secretary/Treasurer, the University Senator (also referred to as the SUNY Senator), the
Parliamentarian (appointed by the Chair), and an At-Large Representative elected by the Senate.
 Faculty Senate
 The Faculty Senate meets on Fridays twice per month during the academic year.
 There are currently 36 voting Senators elected from the following constituencies:
o Academic Departments (17)
o The First Year program
o The Library
o Major committees of faculty governance (5)
o Senators At-Large (5)
o Professionals (3)
o Student Government Association (3)
 The President, Provost, Vice Presidents and Deans are ex officio non-voting members of the Senate

1

B.

Committees of Governance
 Standing Committees of the Faculty (members are elected from the Faculty)
 Academic Policy and Practices Committees (APPC)
 Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure Committee (ARPT)
 Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP)
 Faculty Rights and Responsibilities Committee (FRRC)
 Faculty University Awards Committee (FUAC)
 Liberal Education Committee (LEC)
 Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)
 Special Committees (members serve by appointment)
 Accreditation Program for Experiential Learning (APEL)
 Nominations and Elections Committee (N&E)
 College-wide Committees (members include faculty as well as staff; selection method varies)
 Academic Standing Committee (ASC) (faculty volunteer to serve at ASC Hearings)
 Auxiliary Services Corporation Board of Directors (ASCBD) (faculty are elected)
 Faculty Judicial Committee (FJC) (faculty are elected)
 College Judicial Board (faculty serve at Hearings of Judicial Board through FJC)
 IT Governance Committee (ITG) (faculty are recommended through governance, with
appointment by the President)
 Resource Allocation and Budget Planning Committee (RABPC) (currently inactive)
 Strategic Planning Analysis, Assessment and Review Committee (SPAAR) (pending)
 Student Life Committee (SLC) (faculty are elected)
 Ad Hoc Committees (various task forces/committees on which faculty serve; such groups may be
established through faculty governance, administratively or through joint effort.)
 Applied Learning Committee (AL)
 Green Committee (2009-2010, pending re-establishment per Strategic Plan 2018-2023)
 Hispanic Language and Cultures Committee (HLCC)
 Micro-credentialing Task Force (MC)
 Open Educational Resources (OER)
 Strategic Planning Task Force, Strategic Planning Sub-Committees (2016-18)

C.

Degree of Faculty Participation in Governance 1

For all the areas of governance identified above (i.e., Faculty Senate, Standing Committees, college-wide, ad hoc and
special committees), a total of 176 “slots” in governance positions to be filled were identified in Fall 2018. Of the
college’s estimated 175 full-time faculty, there are now 101 faculty serving in some capacity in governance. Thus,
about 58% of FT faculty are currently participating in governance, with 47 faculty now serving in multiple roles. To
date, about 94% of all identified 176 “slots” in governance service have been filled. (By sheer coincidence, the total
number of governance service slots is about equal to the current number of full-time faculty.)
1

Some Context: Old Westbury faculty have historically valued service: to governance, to the college, the community and beyond. In the first few
decades of the college, commitment to service was very strong, and positions throughout governance were pre-dominated by tenured and
senior faculty. But beginning in the late 1990’s, some structural changes at the college coincided with a decline in the rate of faculty participation
in governance. Prior to the college being reorganized into Schools supervised by deans and academic departments supervised by chairs (instead
of rotating “conveners”), and prior to approval of a Master Plan amendment for development of graduate degrees, the college had functioned as
one unit organized through undergraduate academic programs. By 2005, a few years after restructuring, the rate of faculty serving in governance
had fallen to about 35% of FT faculty; senior and tenured faculty still filled a majority of positions. During 2005-2009, a concerted effort was made
to increase engagement, including reaching out to junior faculty. In 2006-2007, the participation rate was 40% of FT faculty. And as reported to
the College Council in 2009, the participation rate in 2008-2009 had increased to 50% of FT faculty. At that time, a total of 175 service “slots” in
governance had been filled by 65 of the college’s estimated 130 FT faculty; many of those 65 were senior faculty, serving in multiple positions.

2

Faculty Governance Orientation (Oct. 19, 2018) : Overview of Faculty Governance

The following is excerpted from the Faculty Bylaws, State University of New York/College at Old Westbury

ARTICLE II: AUTHORITY OF THE FACULTY
The Faculty shall have the responsibility to legislate and act as a policy making body in the
performance of its responsibilities as determined by the Board of Trustees and in keeping with the
standards of Faculty governance recommended by the State University Faculty Senate.
As prescribed in the Policies, Article X, Paragraph 4, the Faculty of the College "shall have the
obligation to participate significantly in the initiation, development, and implementation of the
educational program." The appropriate areas of Faculty involvement include matters of educational
interest and research and of academic policy. The Faculty shall be responsible, individually and
collectively, for,
1.
2.
3.
4.

maintaining academic standards;
recommending the granting of degrees;
developing the College's educational, research, and service programs, and
conducting these programs.

Within the educational program, the authority of the faculty in academic matters may extend beyond
policy to operational and institutional issues, including technology, campus facilities and resource
allocations, which impact the ability of the Faculty to effectively discharge their academic
responsibilities. In accordance with the University Senate model and SUNY practices, the faculty
are understood to have an appropriate role as participants in institutional decision making;
participation of the faculty in academic and any broader operational and institutional areas shall be
through formal and systematic consultation through established governance structures and
processes. In these areas Faculty authority is expressed in terms of recommendations.
The Faculty may review administrative actions affecting matters within its area of responsibility. It
may also express, by formal resolution, its opinion on any question relating to the policies or
administration of the College.
Such review, resolution or other action by the Faculty or its committees, taken in accordance with the
consultation provisions of these Bylaws and of the Policies, shall be executed by the Faculty or its
appropriate committees without undue delay; likewise, administrative presentation to the Faculty of
matters requiring consultation shall be timely.
The ultimate responsibility for action taken under these Bylaws is the Faculty when it is in session. It
is the responsibility of the Faculty Senate (see Articles IV and V) to act for the Faculty when the
Faculty Senate is in session and the Faculty is not. It is the responsibility of the Executive Committee
(see Article V, Sect. G) of the Faculty Senate to act for the Faculty when the Faculty Senate is not in
session. It is the responsibility of the Chair of the Faculty Senate (see Article V, Sect. C.1) to act for
the Faculty when the Executive Committee is not in session. Neither the Chair of the Faculty Senate
nor the Executive Committee nor the Faculty Senate can overturn actions of the Faculty.

3