STATE

UNIVERSITY

OF NEW

YORK/COLLEGE

AT OLD WESTBURY

Institutional Review Board

(Human Subjects Research Committee)
The IRB is established to protect the rights and welfare of human research subjects recruited to
participate in research activities conducted under the auspices of the institution with which it is
affiliated. The IRB has the authority to approve, require modifications in, or disapprove all research
activities that falls within its jurisdiction as specified by both the federal regulations and local
institutional policy.
Basic Guidelines for Research Proposals to the IRB:
A.

Proposals that Require Review:
1. Proposed funded (and unfunded) research studies that involve human subjects/participants
2. SUNY/Old Westbury and SUNY system sponsored research conducted by Faculty/Staff
3. Research involving human subjects who are part of the College, including but not exclusive
of students

B.

Procedures (Steps) for Research Review:

1,

Research investigator contacts IRB Chair in advance of submission (minimally 2 weeks in

advance of the formal written proposal and submission form). The Sponsor and/or College
Grants officer also should notify the Chair of pending submissions in advance of deadlines.
The IRB Chair will receive and review complete proposals and forms to determine the
criteria for an expedited review and/or a review by the full IRB Committee.
A quorum of the IRB may review complete proposals to decide approval, modification, or
disapproval.

=

The Committee’s

decisions include the following:

a. approval
b. approval with expression of concern(s)
c. approval with limitations
d. deferred for further evaluation
e. exempt or waived by criteria
The Committee notifies the research investigator (and/or sponsor and grants officer) of the
decision.
Proposals with concerns, limitations, deferral or disapproval may be modified and resubmitted.
Annual renewals and reports, along with requests for changes will be resubmitted for
approved continuing research projects.
The IRB will maintain records and reports.
Research investigators must participate in education, training and other programs required
by the College as well as federal, state, and local authorities.

C.

Criteria for Research Review:
1.
Compliance with Federal, State, and Local laws and regulations
2.
Compliance with SUNY system mandates
3.
Consideration of specific Professional Codes, and the diversity of disciplines and
methodological guidelines and procedures
4.
Consideration for the common rule and the protection of human research subjects, along
with consideration for the protection of researchers according to laws, codes, and norms

D.

Contacts:
1. IRB Chair:
Dr. Diana Papademas
(papademasd@ioldwestbury.cdu)
2. Institutional Officer:
Dr. Aubrey Bonnett (bonnctla@oldwestbury.cdu)
3. Grants Officer/Staff:
P.J. Harlow (harlowp‘doldwestbury.cdu)