Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                          Friday, October 30, 2015

Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding),  Thomas Lilly (Vice
Chair), Yogesh More (Secretary/Treasurer), Werner Sbaschnik
(Parliamentarian), Minna Barrett (University Senator), Kathie Greenberg
(Senator at-Large), Kathleen Greenberg (At Large Rep. to EC/Senator at
Large)), Lingxiang Li (Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large),
Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez
(Professional), Laura Anker (First Year Experience), Curt Friehs (Library),
Cary Lange (Accounting), Yu Lei (MMF), Lauren Foxworth (Exceptional
Education), Sujani Reddy (American Studies), Young-Joo Kim (Chemistry &
Physics), Juan Galvis (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Fernando Guerrero
(Modern Languages), Laura Limonic (Sociology), Frank Sanacory (CAP Comm.),
Jacob Heller (FRR Com.).

Senators Absent: Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large/Biology), Lisa Whitten
(Senator At-Large Large), Shalei Simms (Univ. Senator Alternate), Jeanne
Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Blidi Stemn (Childhood Education), Amara
Graf (English), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Robert Gero (Visual Arts), Chris
Hobson (ARPT Comm.), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLR comm.).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP),
Dr. Wayne Edwards (VP Student Affairs), Barbara Hillary (Dean, SAS). Jisan
Zhu (Dean, SOB).

Visitors Present: Anthony DeLluca (Director of Honor College), David
Glodstein (SOB), Costas Hadjicharalambous (SOB), Roger Mayer (SOB), Lorenz
Neuwirth (Psychology), Cristina Notaro (Assistant Dean, SAS), Rafat Sada
(Enrollment).

   I. Call to Order: 12:35 pm

  II. Approval of the Minutes of October 10, 2010

A motion to approve the Minutes of October 10, 2015 was seconded and after
that approved unanimously by voice vote.

 III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report

    ● There was a presentation at the Full Faculty Meeting about the
      Digital Campus. If approved by SUNY, the money will come from the SUNY
      Investment Fund, which is worth 18 million dollars. The issue is that
      there are 78 proposals for the 18 million dollars, so we are asked as
      a campus to talk to our representatives for funding this kind of
      proposal.
    ● SUNY Excels money has been held back for Performance Metrics. We
      should know where this money it is going to go before Thanksgiving.
    ● We had a meeting to bring the Scranton Machine/Software by this
      Spring. A group of people are going to work together on this, and Dr.
      Heller agreed to be the chair of that group.
    ● We didn’t hear from the President in terms of the resolution on
      Salaries compression that we passed on October 9th, but I am sure we
      will hear shortly on what direction to go.

IV.   President’s Report

      Excused.

V.    Provost’s Report

    ● There was a SUNY conference in New York for the last two days.
      Attending were academics, politicians, SUNY representatives,
      Presidents of Campuses including Dr. Butts, private and public
      officials attended as well.  The goal was to look at what changes are
      in the horizon about education.
    ● I will work with the Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate about
      the salary resolution and put together a group that will come up with
      some recommendations with regard to the salary compression that
      exists.
    ● We had a short fall in enrollment and it has had a budget impact.
      When we make predictions for our enrollment targets, they determine
      our subsidy from the State for that Academic Year. SUNY is monitoring
      the projection. We were short in enrollment by about 190 to 200
      students and the short fall was significant in freshmen and continuing
      returning students. The brightest spot was in graduate students’
      enrollment. The 190 students translate to $1.34 million. There is some
      projection and estimation specifically related to that number, but for
      the Fall of 2015, the short fall associated amounted to $534,000, and
      for the Spring of 2015 the projection would be $800,000.
      We were short in the Fall of the past Academic Year 2014-15 because of
      the composition of the students and the amount was $574,000 even
      though we hit the enrollment target. When you add the two together it
      comes to almost 2 million dollars. The worry is if this is structural
      deficit going forward, then, clearly we have a lot of work to do in
      enrollment. We need the Chairs and the Deans to take serious steps
      immediately so we can improve the enrollment for the Spring. For
      example, I will ask secretaries to start calling students who attended
      in the Spring of 2015, but not enrolled in the Fall of 2015 and there
      are other group of students that we are also targeting to close that
      gap.
    ● Academic Affairs roughly takes about almost 60% of the total college
      budget, so if there is a short fall I have to address that shortage.
      There will be some deferral of hiring of full time faculty. We won’t
      have the same number of full faculty hired in fall 2016 as we had in
      2015. We need to talk to Chairs to see who will be impacted. I will
      defer some sabbatical leaves, but that doesn’t mean you should not
      apply. There will be some elimination of course releases also.


VI.    Presentation on the Bylaws for the FRRC (Peter Ikeler)

We have been working since the last year on revising the Bylaws and expect
to have a revised draft available by the end of this semester. Hopefully in
the spring it will be submitted to the Senate for approval.

    • A bylaw is a definition for rules made by a company, society or
      corporation to control the action of its members.
    • Faculty self-government is the second highest body for self-government
      other than the Full Faculty.
    • Policies are the rules that we impose on ourselves.
    • The faculty controls the curriculum; the administration controls the
      faculty. The faculty recommends to the administration. That is the
      rule of control. Ideally it is the full faculty who has the highest
      authority on the important issues. In between the faculty meeting is
      the Faculty Senate, then in between is the Executive Committee and in
      between is the Faculty Senate Chair as a server of the larger body of
      decision-making members.
    • Faculty Senate includes academic department’s representatives,
      professional staff, student’s representatives and ex-officio members.
      We also have the multiple committees.
    • Consultation Clause describes the relation between the Faculty and the
      College’s President.
    • As for self-governance, the Faculty develops the Bylaws. Some points
      require the approval of the President.

    • The Bylaws are living documents and can be changed in the future. We
      refer to them to describe the rules we made for ourselves. Faculty can
      do certain things, must do certain things, and are forbidden to do
      certain things. When in doubt we can consult our Bylaws; but also can
      consult the key Contract which is the legally binding document for the
      Campus Wide and consult The Board of Trustees Policies. Those are
      three documents that govern our functioning. If the answer of your
      question is not in the Bylaws, you may refer to one of those two
      documents to figure out the issue.

    • When Faculty, students, administrators, etc. feel their rights have
      been violated, they can request an arbitration process through the
      Faculty Rights and Responsibilities Committee to open a grievance
      case.

    • We will have a first amendment proposal for the Bylaws at the end of
      this semester and hopefully another on spring to be approved by the
      Senate, and ultimately out of this process, we will have our updated
      Faculty Bylaws.


VII.    Old Business

Report from SUNY Plenary (Minna Barrett)

    ● The legislators last year voted one vote short of unanimous in both
      the House and the Senate to maintain our level of operation MOI,
      including accounting for increases that the governor decided to
      ignore. For example, the governor negotiated a contract with UUP
      giving us 2% raise, and this year, when the raise was due, he decided
      the legislation doesn’t have to pay for the raises but the college
      should do it. This bill has not gone to the governor for signing since
      the last spring and the reason is the he intends to veto it. Tuition
      cost 425 dollars at SUNY Stony Brook during the 70’s, but for many
      students it was free since they were attending under scholarships.
      That was because Stony Brook was supported 75% by the State and
      wealthy people paid 41 percent into their federal taxes. Currently the
      top to pay for those people to the federal level is 31% which is
      enormous decrease. The State covers now 17% of the total; sometimes
      25% depending on how you count it. We have lost 50% of our State
      coverage and still the Governor refuses to maintain the level that
      supports us during the past years. I found interesting my hand was the
      only one that rises to propose a movement to get people from all the
      campuses to sign a letter addressing this and sent it to him. We also
      need to talk about it in the Campus. It is up to us to do this. Last
      years about 5 to 6 faculty got together and obtained 750 signatures.
      As a result, some of what the Governor refused to do was reversed.
      Imagine if we reach every campus. We can accomplish a lot if we have a
      campaign for the next two months, but it needs to be a faculty
      initiative to make a difference.
    ● Our new Provost says we need to increase the number of people
      completing in the next 10 years, because if we don’t he is concerned 5
      campuses are going to be closed.
    ● Cuomo wants to make into a law the requirement that every single
      student in SUNY have an applied learning experience and Faculty Senate
      was very upset because the Governor cannot create curriculum for the
      State University, so he now says that each campus should make
      available opportunities for students who were interested to have
      applied experiential learning. One of the ways to have money for SUNY
      Excels is to have a high level of diversity and have novel programs to
      have those diverse students into Applied Learning. We are lucky
      because we have a diverse student body and also we have a lot of
      applied Learning. We need a comprehensive survey of everything that is
      going on in every department that can be defined as Experiential
      Learning and that includes a very broad base of activities including
      both inside and outside of class. We will have to make a decision
      about whether to make mandatory Applied Learning or Experiential
      Learning as graduating requirement a year from now. We need to hold a
      series of forums for us to talk about what we think about that.
    ● Some campuses have faculty heavily engaged in SUNY Excels, but not
      us. We only had three proposals. We had a nice discussion a year ago
      about the metrics, but I think we didn’t have enough conversation in
      each School and Department about what it means and how we can address
      it and apply for money that supports what we are doing.
    ● The two resolutions we are providing attached to the agenda are to
      vote on them at the next meeting.
    ● I will send you the Applied Learning Report so you can bring the
      document to your chair.
    ● You are going to get The State Wide Approved Guidance once it is
      approved by the SUNY Faculty.
    ● The Chancellor will be at the Global SUNY Conference in NYC two
      weeks from now. We need to send a representative from our faculty and
      are accepting a volunteer to attend.

VI.      New Business


CAP Presentation on two proposed Masters Degrees in Business. (Frank
Sanacory)

    ● CAP unanimously approved M.S. Forensic Accounting and M.S.
      Healthcare Management proposals on October 16, 2015. Forensic
      Accounting will be the only program like this in Long Island.
    ● Resources are another concern of CAP. There are already graduate
      programs in the School of Business and adjuncts are teaching some
      courses.
    ● CAP is concerned about diversity in the program. In the Graduate
      Program, only 1.98 % of students are African-Americans. We need to
      make sure we are appealing to all type of students.
    ● CAP recommended both proposals to be approved by the Senate as well.
    ● Motion to vote on the proposed was seconded and the Senate approved
      the programs with 20 votes in favor, 0 opposed and 1 abstention.


Community Web Series (Fernando Guerrero)

    ● I am trying to produce 6 episode web series on campus this year. We
      have students working on it. We have director and a team that will
      shoot in April and the show will be seen on September. Some of you
      could be interviewed. It is fiction, not a documentary, but it is
      going to be loosely about the campus. We are asking for funding
      online.
    ● There will be a testing on campus and actors from the city will work
      for free, as well as from the campus. We have ideas for a main plot A,
      but are soliciting ideas for a secondary plot B. We also include
      students to reflect their own experiences. They are web series. You
      put them on the web and hope everyone will see them.


VII.     Announcements

  IV. Adjournment at 2:30pm, October 30, 2015.