Scheduling	  Software	  Timeline	  
	  
August	  30,	  2017	  	  

-­‐	  Provost	  appoints	  Jacob	  Heller	  to	  lead	  a	  group	  to	  identify	  best	  scheduling	  
software	  options	  for	  the	  College,	  with	  special	  interest	  in	  predictive	  
analytics	  that	  will	  make	  academic	  schedules	  more	  effective	  for	  students.	  

September	  20,	  2017	  	   -­‐	  follow-­‐up	  meeting	  to	  clarify	  goals/aims	  of	  the	  scheduling	  software	  
initiative.	  
Sept	  -­‐	  Nov	  2017	  	  

-­‐	  meetings	  with	  SAS	  Dean,	  Registrar,	  CIO,	  Senate	  Chair,	  IT	  Director,	  Asst.	  
VP	  for	  Acad.	  Affairs,	  various	  individual	  faculty.	  

November	  10,	  2017	  	   -­‐	  “Scheduling	  Software	  Initiative”	  memo	  to	  Provost,	  proposing	  a	  small	  
working	  group	  to,	  “include	  a	  Faculty	  member/Department	  Chair	  
(recommended	  by	  Faculty	  Senate),	  the	  person	  in	  Academic	  Affairs	  
responsible	  for	  the	  Catalog	  and	  finalizing	  the	  class	  schedule	  (Shalei	  
Simms),	  the	  Registrar	  (Pat	  Smith),	  and	  someone	  from	  Information	  
Technology	  (Liz	  Bouchard),	  as	  well	  as	  a	  Chair,	  to	  be	  appointed	  by	  the	  
Provost.”	  	  Membership	  finalized:	  
	  
Geta	  Techanie	  (Governance/Dept.	  Chair)	  
Shalei	  Simms	  (Acad.	  Affairs)	  
Liz	  Bouchard	  (IT)	  
Pat	  Smith	  (Registrar)	  
Jacob	  Heller	  (chair)	  
December	  19,	  2017	  	   -­‐	  Working	  Group	  meets	  to	  discuss	  perspectives,	  essential	  aspects	  of	  any	  
software;	  charge	  expanded	  to	  include	  recommendations	  for	  an	  electronic	  
catalog.	  
Jan	  –	  Feb	  2018	  	  

-­‐	  conversations	  with	  vendors	  to	  begin	  setting-­‐up	  demos	  (scheduling	  
conflicts	  within	  working	  group	  prevented	  any	  actual	  demos).	  

Late	  February	  2018	  	   -­‐	  consensus	  within	  Working	  Group	  that	  Ad	  Astra	  Platinum	  Analytics	  is	  
only	  option	  offering	  the	  kinds	  of	  efficiencies,	  cost-­‐savings,	  and	  
advantages	  to	  students;	  too	  late	  in	  budget	  cycle	  to	  complete	  
bidding/procurement	  process	  within	  2017-­‐18	  fiscal	  year.	  
Late	  March	  2018	  

-­‐	  Old	  Westbury	  is	  selected	  for	  participation	  in	  a	  SUNY	  PIF	  (Performance	  
Improvement	  Fund)	  led	  by	  SUNY	  Fredonia	  and	  SUNY	  Monroe	  Community	  
College,	  which	  will	  fund	  Ad	  Astra	  Platinum	  Analytics	  for	  a	  two-­‐year	  
period,	  with	  minimal	  costs	  to	  the	  campus.	  

April	  2018	  

-­‐	  contracts	  to	  be	  signed,	  implementation	  team	  identified,	  planning	  for	  
implementation	  can	  begin.