BPC Report for Full Faculty Meeting
February 15, 2002

My report today assumes that faculty have been following the BPC reports to Senate since last Faculty
meeting. I will focus on current issues.

Budget projections:

State Office of the Budget requests flat budget for all state agencies (including SUNY)
.
2001/2002 State Funded budget at OW = $19.1Mil
a
Additional SUNY support of $3.3Mil in Strategic Plan funding
At Jan. 10" meeting Len Davis provided “Snapshot of Operating Budget, Funding and Projections”.
Estimated college operating budget @ $23Mil, with funding of $19.1M + $3.3M = shortage of $600K.
Next year projected budget gap could reach $5Mil, with estimated expenses of $24Mil including
contractual increases and support for recent faculty hires [whose funding had not been identified under
Strategic Plan in outlying years], as well as additional funding for maintenance and custodians. Dr. Butts
indicated that it was now up to BPC to deal with difficult decisions related to possible cuts. He asked that
the BPC Chair work with Len Davis (BPC Vice-Chair) to develop a framework for decision making.
Chair met with Davis for two hours on Feb. 8" to discuss how BPC could move ahead. More on that later.
Background:
For the past two years faculty have been attempting to establish a budget planning process consistent with
best practices in SUNY, and consistent with concerns raised by Middle States re. a participatory process

with input from campus constituencies. Faculty are well aware of the basic requirements of an effective

budgeting planning process, which should include
.
representative membership and well-organized structure;
.
formal mechanism by which to receive reports and make recommendations (consensus or vote;
.
rational framework for decision making, including comprehensive data analysis and benchmarking,
.
and especially, the ability to review and make recommendations on funding priorities and overall
resource allocation, to ensure that allocation of institutional resources advances institutional goals.
Beginning with the formal proposal to Administration in May 2000 re. the formation of BPC, and
throughout time since then, faculty leadership on BPC has provided numerous outlines and templates for
making the BPC into an effective budgeting and planning body. But, as noted in last semester’s
assessment by BPC faculty, the BPC has not yet been able to function effectively. Budgeting and
Planning have occurred outside the BPC — not through it. Continued faculty frustration with BPC led to
the February 1“ Faculty Senate Resolution, which resolved to remove faculty representatives from the
BPC unless there is compelling evidence that “Requirements for an Effective Budgeting and Planning
,
Process” are in place by April 1 (or significant progress made by that date).
During recent discussions with Len Davis about HOW to improve the effectiveness of BPC, it became
apparent that faculty governance and administration have vastly different expectations for the Budget
and Planning Committee. (I will be reporting in greater detail about this issue at March 1* Senate
meeting, after briefing Senate Executive Committee and BPC faculty.) Much of the differential in
expectations consists of whether faculty have an active or passive role. The model long sought by faculty
is consistent with best practices throughout SUNY and higher education.
I met with Dr. Butts to brief him on my discussions with the CFO. It is unclear at this point how the BPC
may move forward in any attempt to formalize the role of faculty [and students] in collegewide budgeting
and planning.
submitted by Maureen Dolan, BPC Chair