Criteria for Academic Probation, Suspension, Dismissal
Academic Probation applies automatically to students who fail for the first time to meet minimum GPA
requirements in a given semester. The student is placed on probation for the subsequent semester.
The student must achieve a semester and cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 in order to be removed from
probation.

Academic probation, including any accompanying constraints upon a student’s activities*, is intended as
a support measure designed to encourage students to focus on their studies in order that they may
satisfy academic standards.

*As determined and described by SUNY, college unit or organization.

Academic Suspension applies to students who have attempted a minimum of 32 credits. Students are
automatically suspended from the College if already on probation and they fail to meet the minimum
semester and cumulative GPA requirements. The suspended student may not re-register until one
semester has elapsed.

Academic Dismissal applies automatically to those students who were previously suspended, have
returned and again fail to meet the minimum semester and cumulative GPA requirements. These
students may not apply for reinstatement until two semesters have elapsed from the semester of their
last registration at the College.

It should be noted that individual degree programs may require a higher GPA for courses in their major
(see section on each academic program included in the catalog). Students should consult their advisors
regarding specific program requirements.

Note: Students should contact their Academic Advisor regarding the impact of outstanding Incompletes
on their Academic Standing (Incompletes page ).

March 2021

1

Reinstatement Methods
Students may:
1. Observe the time periods specified above and contact the appropriate Dean’s Office for
clearance.
2. Appeal suspension or dismissal by contacting the Office of the Registrar to schedule an
appointment for a hearing with the Academic Standing Committee. At the hearing students
should provide documentation of their reasons for appeal. The decision of the committee is
final.

Readmission

Students who have previously attended Old Westbury and wish to return after an absence of one or
more semesters (including academically dismissed students) must file an Application for Readmission at
the Office of Enrollment Services at least one month prior to the beginning of the semester.

If readmitted, students who have been away from the College for five years or less will be subject to the
college catalog requirements that were in effect when initially admitted. If readmitted, students absent
for more than five years will be subject to all requirements in the college catalog that is in effect at the
time of readmission. If readmitted, students with outstanding financial obligations to the institution will
not be permitted to register unless all obligations have been satisfied. If readmitted, students who had
been academically dismissed must follow the instructions in the Reinstatement Methods (page ).

March 2021

2