Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                          Friday, December 4, 2015


Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding),  Thomas Lilly (Vice
Chair), Yogesh More (Secretary/Treasurer/Math/CIS); Minna Barrett
(University Senator), Kathie Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Kathleen
Greenberg (At Large Rep. to EC/Senator at Large), Lingxiang Li (Senator At-
Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Shalei Simms (Univ. Senator
Alternate), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional),
Laura Anker (First Year Experience), Curt Friehs (Library), Cary Lange
(Accounting), Yu Lei (MMF), Blidi Stemn (Childhood Education), Lauren
Foxworth (Exceptional Education), Andrew Hashey (Exceptional Education),
Sujani Reddy (American Studies),  Shaadi Mehr (Biological Studies), William
Gillis (Biological Studies), Young-Joo Kim (Chemistry & Physics), Amara
Graf (English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Maureen Dolan (Mathematics & CIS),
Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Sarah Smith
( Public Health),  Amanda Shigihara (Sociology), Frank Sanacory (CAP
Comm.), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLR comm.).

Senators Absent: Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian), Manya Mascareno
(Senator At-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large Large), Shalei Simms
(Univ. Senator Alternate), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Jeanne Shimizu
(Adolescence Education),  Patty Harris (Visual Arts), Chris Hobson (ARPT
Comm.), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC), Jacob Heller (FRR Com.).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP),
Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS), Jishan Zhu (Dean, SOB).

Visitors Present: Omar Estrada Torres (Dean of Students), Amanda Frisken
(GEC), Peter Ikeler (CAP), Jerilyn Marinan (Career Planning), Cristina
Notaro (Assistant Dean, SAS), Rafat Sada ( Enrollment), Caroline Sawyer
(H&P), Duncan Quarless (Chemistry).

           I.          Call to Order: 12:35 pm

 II.  Approval of the Minutes of November 13, 2015

    Faculty Senate approved the minutes unanimously by voice vote.

III.  Faculty Senate Chair’s Report


      The members of the Salary Compression committee decided when they met
      last week to have an agreement completed by February 25th.

      Len Davis reviewed the Scantron contract and the total expense for
      startup and contract services exceeds $50,000. As a public
      institution, any contract which exceeds that amount must go for a
      competitive bid. We are trying to work with SGA and Auxiliary Services
      to seek some help. We will keep you updated as soon as we have a final
      decision.

      The Executive Committee received from the President a copy of SUNY
      Excels, and will discuss it when we meet next Wednesday to review it.
      How Excels matches the Strategic Plan will be the topic of discussion
      when the ARBC meets on December 17th.

      There will be a campus wide meeting on Applied Learning on December 11
      at NAB Room 1100 from Noon to 2:00 pm run by Dr. Barrett and Dr.
      Anker, and will be co-chaired by TLRC.

      There will be a senate meeting on December 18. CAP will be presenting
      a request from SOE for a Master Degree in Literacy. It needs to be
      approved at the end of the semester, so during the winter we can get
      it up to Albany. This is not a new proposal; it has been on the floor
      before.

IV.       President’s Report

      Unable to attend

V.        Provost’s Report

      I have distributed six handouts for faculty review. The first one is
      on Applied Learning; this document comes from SUNY Provost. This is
      the information you want to read to learn about Applied Learning.

      I also gave a one page that has one or two paragraph on the back and
      it is from Buffalo State. The college guarantees students that all the
      classes they need will be available so they can finish in four years.
      There is a push from the Chancellor that all colleges over some period
      of time be added to this.

      Next document come from Office of Institutional Research and
      Assessment. It is a graduation survey. It is just the first page and
      you can read the highlights.

      Another document concerns Middle States. We need to have learning
      outcomes for the college, not only for General Education. In the back
      of this document we can see learning outcomes. It is pushed by The
      American Association of Colleges and Universities. We need to pursue
      this.

      In five years there will have a site visit from Middle States. Every
      ten years Middle States come to validate our accreditation and it is a
      very important event when that occurs.

      The last one is the various degrees of knowledge of comprehension, so
      I duplicated a Bloom Taxonomy provided to me by professor
      Hadjicharalambous. You can see there the words used to define the
      level of analysis that is needed, the degree of comprehension,
      understanding and so on.

      I want to mention what has happened to the Salary Task Force. The five
      people of the Salary Task force are Jacob Heller, Amy Hsu, Rita
      Buttermilch, Barbara Hillery and Anthony Barbera. They had one meeting
      and had a discussion on criteria. We agreed I will be a facilitator
      providing the data they need and they are working on their own. We
      will give you an update when we get it from Jacob Heller.

VI.    Old Business

    Dr. Minna Barrett addressed:

    • Family Leave Resolution

        Each campus has a different way to address the family Leave
      Resolution that passed unanimously in the University Faculty Senate
      last meeting. The present resolution is to say that we approve that
      resolution.
           A motion to vote on sending the resolution to the University
      Faculty Senate was seconded and the resolution was approved by voice
      vote without dissent.

    • Academic Freedom Resolution

      The Senate decided unanimously to postpone voting on this resolution
      until the meeting on December 18th because of the lack of supporting
      documents to illustrate what the present resolution means.

    • Social Justice Resolution

   English Department strongly believes in Social Justice as our mission but
   doesn’t support the resolution. The department is opposed to have their
   curriculum dictated by anyone outside the department, and made clear it
   is not wording issue; the department ideologically doesn’t agree on
   having someone dictate the curriculum and is very concerned about setting
   a precedent for changing the curriculum college wide based on a
   resolution coming from the Faculty Senate.
           
   School of Business believes that a definition of Social Justice should be
   put together from a wide range of constituencies before a resolution like
   this be voted on and have it imposed by a group. SOB doesn’t think the
   term is precisely defined and also expressed concern about whether it is
   a correct way to address the college Social Justice Mission if we impose
   it in the curriculum. The department asked if by adding Social Justice as
   a course, it will fulfill what is written in the resolution.

   Biology Department feels that Social Justice is important and they are
   working to incorporate it into the department curriculum. The department
   wants to define what should be the requirements since the way it is
   written now; it is not 100% clear about that.

   Math Department doesn’t approve the resolution.

   Quarless said that this resolution has come before this body at least
   once in each of the last three years and it comes each time with the same
   language, so this body continues talking about this. No progress. The
   Executive Committee that was initially responsible for this resolution
   understood it was a working document subject to revision that the body
   will offer so we can somehow create something that was more contextual in
   regard to our college mission as a set of principles that can become part
   of some sort of descriptive element of the curriculum within departments
   to create a consciousness about the alignment of curriculum to the actual
   mission of the college. Three years later we see the same language. I
   heard the same things that I heard three years ago. Please, try to make
   some progress or take this thing and burn it.

   Frisken explained that the last whereas accommodates the departments are
   different. She added there are a lot of ways to do mathematics analysis
   where you can keep these kinds of values, and that she feels that the
   second resolution concerning college wide standards can be written in
   some other way and either eliminated or tweaked.

   Dr. Barrett said as follows: I can’t image how people teach today in the
   United States looking at what is going around in the United States with
   this culture and don’t feel compelled to tell the truth to their
   students. They have to work in a society where all of this is going on.
   In a department meeting today talking about student’s failure, I said
   last year I had a student who lost his mother and then their apartment,
   then somebody said that was all made up. It is that kind of thinking
   where you hate the students so much that you don’t know when a student is
   telling the truth or not is some of the same flavor to me. I can’t teach
   psychology without teaching about the inequity in the United States. If
   you are teaching business and not talking about inequity and corruption
   as an essential focus of what you are teaching in skill development, then
   what you are teaching to these kids is a lie about what is going in the
   world around them. Don’t you resent so much that what we get from the
   United States and from the media is a pile of lies about how the system
   really works? You don’t want to discuss the very things that are shaping
   the kids. Because what is going on is why we have this particular student
   body, and why the State University is OK to pay 17% per student. It is
   affecting people in the society every day.

   Anker proposed the Executive Committee meet the people who made comments
   today and try to convene with them to get some results.

   Velsor decided to take the resolution to the Executive Committee for some
   more discussion.

VII.    New Business

   Revision of the Bylaws. Presented by Peter Ikeler.

   Many of the members of the committee have been working since the last
   year on the revision. Some members of the committee have missed some of
   the meetings, and have not read all the revisions that have been
   proposed. However, the proposed revisions were made available to them,
   and they had the opportunity to submit comments before today’s
   presentation.
   There is one batch of the revisions being presented today, and the second
   batch will come at the end of the spring semester. The document is
   duplicated showing a dirty version with the principles and a clean
   version with the changes.
      A senator said that we need more time and a mechanism to make
comments on
      all of this; I think it is too much right now. Another senator
suggested going  
      section by section through the Bylaws in subsequent faculty Senate
meetings.   
      It also was recommended the FRCC present a lengthy presentation to go
point
      by point through the changes.
      Quarless said he was not interested in spending hours in a Senate
meeting
      going line by line through each change.
   Velsor proposed to make a PowerPoint presentation at the next Faculty
   Senate meeting on December 18th with the members of the committee to
   answer the questions that senators have.
   Dr. Barrett recommended a compromise solution that requires communicating
   to the committee the concerns of each department and said that we need to
   go over the changes item by item.    
   Velsor said that she will contact with Heller, who is the chair of the
   Bylaws Committee, to make a decision on how we will move on December 18th
   when the Senate meet again.

VIII.     Announcements

    • Applied Learning Meeting will be held at NAB Room1119 on Friday,
      December 11, from Noon to 2:00 pm

    • Motion to end the meeting was seconded and approved without dissent.

 IX.      Adjournment at 2:28 pm, December 4, 2015.