November 5, 2003
Mr. Joseph Hildreth, President
University Faculty Senate
State University of New York
State University Plaza
Albany,

New York

12246

Dear Joe:
Thank you for forwarding the resolutions passed during the Fall Plenary of
the University Faculty Senate at Oswego. | am pleased, in this letter, to respond.
While | am disappointed that the Senate did not endorse the Memorandum
of Understanding that had been developed by the discussion group, | recognize and
respect the fact that the faculty considers that there remain issues that require
further discussion. Therefore, as you have requested, we will pause in the
implementation of the June Board resolution to address those issues and to build

the consensus that we all seek.

We recognize that it is possible, as the faculty have proposed, for campuses
to develop unique approaches to this initiative and that this diverse set of
approaches could certainly be compatible with System goals. Indeed, the Senate’s
notion of ‘University-wide campus-based assessment’ is a helpful way of
understanding this concept.
As you know, Chairman Egan indicated at the October Board meeting that
he expects to hear back from us at the Board’s January 27 meeting. At this point, |
am inviting faculty governance bodies take the lead in developing a draft of a
revised proposal which includes the goals established for this initiative:

1.

An assessment framework for determining the growth in learning achieved
by SUNY undergraduates in the building blocks of general education.
This framework should consist of a set of instruments administered at two

points in time: close to the student's entry to the institution and at some later

date when the student has completed this learning.

The designated

measures should include “externally referenced measures” — which | will
interpret as either nationally or SUNY-normed — in addition to those already
in place in campus plans. This, in my view, meets the goal for
accountability.

2.

A survey instrument that will provide for an understanding of the indicators
that reflect the campus academic environment.

3.

An analysis of the relationship between academic assessment results and
these environmental influences.

4.

An indication of how individual campus plans will be folded into the GEAR
approval process, including the specific criteria that GEAR will use in
approving them.