STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
SPECIAL MEETING of the Faculty Senate and Full Faculty
Friday, February 7, 2020
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location S-100
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

Roster of Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Christa Devirgilio (Secretary/Treasurer),
Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At Large
Rep to the EC), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), John Estes (Senator At Large), Veronika Dolar
(PEL), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC),
Jon Kleinman (Professional), Do Young Park (Math/CIS), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez
(Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Blidi Stemm (CE), Christos Nostos (BS), Lina Gillic (EE), Ashley
Alvarado (SGA) , Jillian Nissen (BS), Erin Toolis (PY), Runi Mukherji (University Senator Alternate),
Fred Fleischer (VA), Sara Williamson, Roger Mayer (AC), Laura Anker (FY), Svetlana Jovic (PY
Alternate), Lee Blackstone (SY), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Edslav Manetovic (LEC), Frank Sanacory
(CAP Alternate)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Duncan Quarless (Acting Provost), Raj Devasagayam (Dean
SOB), Frank Pizzardi (VP Enrollment), Amanda Frisken (Acting Dean SAS), Diana Sukhram (Acting
Dean SOE) Claudia Marin Andrade (Dean of Students)
Visitors: Jacob Heller, Cris Notaro, Manya Mascareno, Ed Bever, Patrick Cadet, Anthony Barbera,
Rafat Sada, Karl Grossman, Sanja Cale, Ashley Lien, Matt Lippert, Shalei Simms, Jermaine Archer,
Lillian Park, Gary Levanto, Lorenz Neuwirth, Martha Livingston, Carol Quirke, Margaret Torrell,
Yumi Nicholson, Chelsea Shields-Mas, Ozgur Akgun, Penny Chin, Gilda Zwerman, Tom DelGiudice,
Minna Barrett, Lisa Whitten, Steve Siena
Roster of Senators Absent: Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen
O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH),
Helidon Gjergji (Senator At Large), Jingyi Song (HP)

MINUTES

0.

Meeting arrival and sign in

12:20 p.m.

I.

Call to Order

12:30 p.m.

II.

Approval of Minutes for December 06, 2019

−
−
III.

Motion to approve minutes was seconded. Two amendments were noted.
Minutes as amended approved by voice vote, without dissent.
Chair’s Report: Andrew Mattson

− SUNY Board of Trustees Chair Dr. Meryl Tisch Visit: Dr. Tisch met with a group of 13
faculty for an hour on Wednesday, 2/5, as a part of her listening tour of SUNY Colleges. Dr.
Tisch asked the faculty about the college’s relationship with SUNY and our priorities in this
period of transition to a new president and administration. Faculty members emphasized
the importance of building the Science building and increasing the number of full-time
faculty, and our thoughts about the college’s strengths and challenges. She advised patience
with the search process and assured us that the Board of Trustees is committed to both the
search process and the success of Old Westbury.
− Committee Appointments: The Faculty Senate Chair fills committee vacancies that became
vacant during the academic year.
− CAP Committee: One vacancy filled. A new chair has been elected.
o Dr. Amanda Frisken (AS) is now Acting Dean of the School of Arts & Sciences. As
acting dean, she can no longer serve on CAP or as CAP Chair.
o Dr. Frank Sanacory (MCIS) has agreed to serve on CAP for the remainder of the
academic year replacing Dr. Frisken as a member of CAP.
o Dr. Ryoko Yamamoto (SY) is the newly elected chair of CAP.
− ARPT: Two vacancies have been filled. one faculty member stepped down, another went on
sabbatical.
o Dr. Youngjou Kim (CP) has been appointed to the “At Large” seat for this academic
year.
o Dr. Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (ML)has been appointed to the vacant School of Arts
& Sciences seat for a tenured faculty member for the remainder of the academic year.
− LEC: The Diversity Representative is on sabbatical this spring creating an open seat.
o Dr. Orquidea Morales (AS) is the new Diversity Representative for the remainder of
this academic year.
− Distance Learning Advisory Committee: The Director of Distance Learning, Dr. Ed Bever,
is considering an advisory group to discuss Hybrid, Blended & Net learning at Old Westbury.
Interested faculty should contact Dr. Bever or the Chair of Faculty Senate.
− Library Advisor Group: The Director of the Library, Antonia DiGregorio is considering the
creation of a library advisory group. An announcement will be made at the next Senate
meeting on 2/21.
− Last semester a resolution was passed by the Senate for improving IT shared governance;
the resolution included the creation of a shared task force, altering how IT governance
happens at Old Westbury. Two co-chairs of task force: from the administration, Jacob Heller,
and from the faculty, Ryoko Yamamoto (Sociology). They have been meeting and
collaborating. They are charged with creating a Proposal for this task force.
− Floor was opened for questions.

IV.

Paul Patton, Vice Chancellor of Human Resources, SUNY
− Paul Patton, on the Presidential Search Process: he thanked everyone for the invitation, and
stated it is a delight to get out to where all the real work happens.
− OW is getting a lot of positive attention, positive momentum is happening, excitement
surrounding a presidential search. Going to need everyone's participation and involvement
− RPA search firm who has completed SUNY’s most recent search, at Plattsburgh.
− 13 presidential searches went on at the same time last year. SUNY is now down to 9,
including OW. Each search is unique. On February 28th the Chancellor will visit the campus,
and then everything will be happening at a very fast pace. We have been able to get a general
understanding of what the issues are. Dr. Butts will be staying on for another semester at a
minimum.
− A couple of things have happened, please understand that it is called a search committee for
a reason. It is not a wait committee. It is not just going to wait for people to apply, however
they would go out and recruit. Try to tap into the spectrum into educational leaders, try to
entice people who would not generally be interested. After a president is selected there is
still a lot of connectivity. We take responsibility for onboarding and training the new
president. We take responsibility for aligning the new president with other presidents
throughout the system. We appoint a variety of college presidents to tackle different issues,
and we evaluate the presidents. We are also responsible for compensation which is based on
merit. We look at all of their credentials.
− A lot of alignment of the SUNY system and a deep understanding of SUNY Old Westbury.
After witnessing first hand, we have very engaged leaders on the search committee. We are
looking forward to the contributions from the faculty.
− Questions were open to the floor:
− What are qualities you are looking for in recruit for Old Westbury president? He is
going to take credit for your recruitment efforts. At the end of the process, three candidates
(unranked) will be presented to the Chancellor. The needs of Old Westbury are intended to
be met by our own recommendations.
− Faculty comment: It is very important to get on the record that SUNY respects how
important this is for our campus, having the needs of the College as expressed by its
members met, seeing as the last president was imposed upon us, with no faculty input. It is
important for the younger people that may not have been here at the beginning.
− Question: Since Dr. Butts will be staying on for an additional semester, so does that mean
there won’t be a need for an acting or interim president? Patton replied Yes.
− Why do we engage in an outside recruiting firm to do this, seeing as SUNY is in need of
money? Search firms are extremely valuable and are not as expensive compared to the fact
that we do not have the internal resources to recruit and vet and do background/reference
checks. They have their finger on the pulse of all types of movement in the academic world.
Very important questions are being asked and they know the bench on every single campus.
Every applicant going through the search process will not be a sitting president but will be
ready to serve.

− Do we know how much this [search firm] will cost? Generally speaking, one third of the
candidate’s salary.
− Mili Makajani and Paul Patton are really working together. Paul is the Chancellor's Office
representative on the search committee, a non-voting member. His coming to the campus is
a real vote of confidence.
V.

Provost’s Report: Duncan Quarless
− He is now the new Acting Provost
− The search firm is meeting with the cabinet shortly, and he will yield the rest of his time to
Jacob Heller and Anthony Barbera. There has been a lot of movement, we have a new acting
dean in the School of Education, Diane Sukhram, a new acting dean of the school of Arts and
Sciences, Amanda Frisken, and a new acting Associate Provost, Barbara Hillary. He wants to
thank Dr. Butts and the administration for the support in these movements that continue to
advance the goals that we have.
− He wants to thank the faculty and staff for what we do, the movements you are seeing should
not cause you to feel all alone. He knows the add/drop period has been extended a little bit,
and this changed the dependability in your classrooms nevertheless. He thanks you for your
patience and support. As a result of extending add/drop, we came close to reaching out goal
target.
− Micro-credentials are moving forward; 3 awards have been granted and 10 new
applications. We are seeing some non-matriculated students expressing some interest in
that. However, we are hoping you all see what micro-credentials are doing for us in
sustaining our mission
− New Applied Learning coordinator, Michelle Wolfman, jointly serving Academic Affairs and
Student Affairs; coordinator will help us to compile our clearing hours to applied learning.
− We are very happy to be advancing the profile of the School of Professional Studies; he
thanks the faculty for supporting this venture. Access will be broadened by the School of
Professional Studies.
− Faculty comment from the floor: changing the enrollment period and extending add/drop is
wrong. Technically what we really want is to address meeting the enrollment goal on the
front end. It may not help us in the long run if students enroll late, after missing nearly
several classes. We are handicapping students and goals if we don’t have better policy.
− Anthony Barbera on Middle States Update: the team is visiting us next spring although no
date is set. Over 100 people working on the report. If you are asked for information, please
participate. If you are a member of a working group, please attend all the meetings
− Jacob Heller on Enrollment: We are closer to meeting our enrollment goals. Enrollment is
counted in different ways: head count, enrolled, new transfers, returning students. Our
census date is at the end of business on Monday. We expect to lose some enrollment before
then, but we met the goal for full-time graduate students. We need enrollment to meet the
budget.

− Business & Finance have been very good at generating revenue that does not come from
enrollment. The $300,000 debt we will have to pay SUNY by not meeting our enrollment
target is covered.

VI.

University Faculty Senator’s Winter Plenary Report
− Report was distributed today. Due to special speakers at today’s meeting, the UFS report will
be presented at the next Senate meeting on 2/21.

VII.

College Council Chair: Mili Makhijani

− The Chair welcomed Old Westbury’s new College Council Chair, Dr. Mili Makhijani.
− She has been working tirelessly ever since she was appointed and provided some
background. Makhijani has been an attorney for the last 15 years and was approached about
the position in late September/early October. She happily accepted; vetting process included
a 6-week background check. They wanted to know everything. The appointment was made
by Governor Cuomo, and her first meeting was early December. She was thrown right in and
is figuring out the best way to begin this Search.
− She wanted to point out that the Chair of Faculty Senate is such a good leader for the faculty.
She has seen leaders who are a group spokesperson and will express concerns, but Andy
Mattson did more than that. He made sure that all of the concerns of faculty were expressed,
and he pressed until he was given an answer.
− Paul Patton conveyed the blessing from the Chancellor to give us all the support we need.
− SUNY has 9 searches for a president going on at the same time; office is very busy.
− Your Faculty Senate Chair made a very clear distinction about what is or is not confidential
− A list of 17 search committee members will be published. The big turn-out of faculty in the
election to the Search Committee is excellent, which means the representatives were chosen
by faculty and can be trusted.
− She is here to answer any concerns you have about the process. What characteristics do you
want to see in the next president? What kind of vision do you want your next president to
have?
− In the event someone would like to talk further to the Search Firm (RPA), contact
information will be available beyond today. Everyone will be heard. Everyone loves the
school and shares in the common goal and purpose; they need to know that.
− Question: What do you see as the important values of this institution? Since you will be
arguing for us, what do you see?
− She is still meeting with people and getting to know the college, meeting with various
constituents and continues to rely on the opinions she hears, taking guidance from all of the
faculty and staff here. In her role, not what she says but what we say, the search firm has
been on campus gathering information all day.
− After this, all opinions are summarized and assessed and provide our opinion to the search
firm. the entire search committee has to vote on candidates brought to them. Although she
has the final say, she will get her information from us.

− Makhijani invited comments and questions.
− Question: What expedited or stagnated the search?
− The most time-consuming part is the recruitment process. Search typically has several
months of recruitment; they need to make sure that the initial candidate pool is sufficiently
diverse, finding candidates who stand up to what the school believes is. Then initial round of
interviews, and the search committee meets more often. There is a detailed timeline; the
search process will be as fast as she allows it to go without ruining the integrity of process.
− This search firm has been used before by SUNY, including Plattsburgh and Oneonta, and they
are familiar with the process, which she trusts.
− Question: Sounds like SUNY has had 3 successful searches, specifically, what was their
timeline? Given that this search firm has been used in 2 searches, maybe you can provide an
assessment as to how it worked out for them.
− The search firm’s job is to identify what's important to and what's unique about each of the
campuses. They need to have the skills to assess, in a short period of time, the needs of this
particular institution. That's why opinions are so valuable.
− The general timeline presented on record, pending approval by the Chancellor, is Spring of
2020: campus assessment, development of advertising period. The Chancellor will give the
charge in person, at the first meeting on February 28th; search begins 3 to 5 days after.
− RPA has a database of 10 thousand.
− Evaluation Criteria: What criteria are we going to use to evaluate for interviews in 2020?
− In early to mid-summer, search committee does a further evaluation on the initial candidate
pool, and in late summer the initial round of interviews. In early fall, the search committee
further evaluates candidates, and semi-finalist pool is at most 12. Those interviews include
the search committee and full College Council. The first round is just the search committee.
Both groups hand in their selection of final 3 names. Chancellor narrows it down to one and
name to get forward and approved. She is looking at a September appointment however she
has been told this seems very ambitious.

VIII. Faculty Forum with the Presidential Search Firm: (RPA inc.): Dana Cohick (President)
and Amanda O’Donnell (Vice President)
− Five Questions were presented to the Faculty Senate and others present:
1. What do you want the next president to know about SUNY Old Westbury to get them
excited about coming here?
2. What are the top items you would like to see addressed in the first year?
3. What do you want the institution to look like in 5 years?
4. What personal and professional characteristics would you like he next president to
have?
5. What should the candidate know in advance, to not be surprised?

− An electronic survey with the same five questions (above) will be distributed to the entire
campus in the next few weeks to aid the search.
− RPA allotted 45 minutes for the faculty and others present to respond to the above
questions. Some in attendance expressed frustration with the limited time and limited
forum for faculty input.
− Responses to these questions will be distributed by next week’s meeting as “Special
meeting minutes”.

IX

Adjournment

(2:30pm)