b¥ fice oF

Pealemic

Ablmirs

The Process Utilized for Campus-wide Participation in MR II
I.

Chronology:

1.

February, 2004—Document received in Academic Affairs.

2.

February 27—*Reported on the progress of MR II to the Faculty Senate and
responded to questions.

3.

March, 2004—Process (First Phase)

a-

Met with Ruben and Ron to discuss course of action.

b-- *Met with Faculty Senate Chairperson to discuss course of action and

to get approval for the process that follows. Shared governance would
be as inclusive as possible. Faculty would serve on all committees.
The Academic Programs subcommittee would comprise of all faculty
and would serve as an Academic Programs Subcommittee to review
and compose each section of the entire document. There were eleven

faculty chairs who wrote, edited, and provided corrections for the
document (see committees attached).
c-

Met with appropriate students, staff, faculty, and cabinet members in
order to create a comprehensive Steering Committee to determine

chairs of each major question section. There were eight administrative
chairs. The process encompassed the following: questions were
distributed by sections. Each section was chaired by the appropriate
college personnel. Each chair was responsible for composing a
committee (of faculty, staff and students) providing and researching
data, and answering questions under their charge.

d-

The process: The Academic Programs Subcommittee and the

Administrative Steering Committee provided for a double-tiered and
redundant process by which administrators and faculty served
independently and complementary roles: each checking and validating

the answers of the other. This process continued until there was a
complete document (all questions answered). When the document was
complete it was sent out campus-wide for additional edits and

corrections.

4.

March 25—First MR II meeting with Steering Committee.

bd

6.

March 30—Second Meeting with Steering Committee.

=

March 26—*Reported on the progress of MR II to the Faculty Senate and
responded to questions.

April 5—Meeting with select members of MR I Committee (Jim, Tom, Runi,

oS

Rita).

9.

April 8—Meeting with Academic Programs Subcommittee, Ruben and Ron
determined that members would divide document by sections and edit in
entirety.
April 14—Meeting with MR I Committee members.

10. April 16—*Reported to the Faculty Senate on the progress of MRII and
responded to questions.
11. April 27—Meeting with Mona and Sandy K.

12. May 24—MR II Academic Program Subcommittee draft due.
13. May 25—-Steering Committee.

14. May 26—Academic Program Subcommittee.
**Draft sent to Subcommittees for review and corrections. Academic

Program Subcommittee met and made revisions for full document
throughout the summer (Professor Mukherji borrowed a laptop to take
on vacation in order to e-mail corrections).

15. June 1—Academic Subcommittee.
**Second draft sent to Subcommittees for additional review and
corrections.
16. June 14—Steering Committee.

17. June 15—Academic Program Subcommittee.
18. June 22—Academic Program Subcommittee.
19. June 28—Steering Committee.
20. June 29—Academic Program Subcommittee.
Revised to include revisions from Academic Programs Subcommittee.
** Dr. Cox revised Item #9 (page 8) and sent to Academic Programs

Subcommittee.

21. July 20—Academic Program Subcommittee.
Revisions were made to items #4-8, & 29-30. **Sent to Academic
Programs Subcommittee.
22. September, 2004— Campus-wide Review (Second Phase)
The document was completed in August and a draft was prepared, and sent to various
campus constituents, students, faculty and staff. They were asked to review the
document. Corrections and further edits were solicited and included in subsequent
drafts.
23. September 2—**MR II document sent to Steering Committee and Academic
Programs Subcommittee asking for edits and comments.
24. September 10—*Reported on MR II and questions raised on the faculty
governance process as the new Faculty Senate had been
installed.
25. September 2—**MRII document sent to Steering Committee and Academic
Programs Subcommittee asking for edits and comments.

26. September 17—Mailed list of faculty participation to Faculty Senate to show the
level of faculty involvement.
27. September 22—**MR II document sent to Steering Committee and Academic

Programs Subcommittee. Revision and inclusion of appendix.

oo

2 . September 29—Steering Committee meeting.

*+*Sent to Dr. Edward Bever (noting revision to question #41).

29. October 7—***A draft was circulated to the campus by e-mail (First draft to
entire campus).
30. October 12—***Most recent draft (10/7/04-Revision) was sent via e-mail to
OW Community (faculty, students, administration, and staff).

par

3 . October 15—**Sent hard copies of the (10/7/04-Revision) report to the Faculty
Senate meeting, copies to chairs, and for Dr. Cox to distribute to the
Distinguished Teaching Professors (meeting with Dr. Cox). Also
revised to include revisions received from Dr. Cox.
*Reported on progress of MR II to Faculty Senate and requested
input.

32. October 18—*Met with Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate on MR II.
33. October 28—Revised to include revisions Dr. Cox received from members of the
Steering Committee and faculty.

BR

3 . October 29—Academic Programs Subcommittee.
35. November 1—Meeting with Subcommittee Chairs.
36. November 5—Revised to include all revisions Dr. Cox received from Campus
Community (Cabinet, faculty, and members of various
subcommittees).
37. November 9—Meeting with Academic Affairs staff (Ruben, Ron, Sandy).
38. November 11—Meeting with Academic Affairs staff (Ruben, Ron, Sandy).

39. November 12—*Discussed MR II with Faculty Senate.
40. November 15—Meeting with Academic Affairs staff (Ruben, Ron, Sandy).

41. November 16—***Revision of MR II document is sent out to College
Community for final comments and suggestions. These
suggestions will be included in final edition for President’s
approval. Dr. Cox, Ruben, Ron, and Sandy edited whole
document for content, grammar and flow.
42. November 17—Revised to include minor revisions (on four pages).
***Document e-mailed to College Community, students, and
mailed to Faculty Senate Subcommittee.

43. November 24—Met with Dr. Butts, Mona Rankin, Dr. Caroline Sawyer, Dr.

Edward Bever, and Dr. Rita Colon-Urban to discuss revisions and
Faculty Senate process for MR II.

44, November 30—Met with Dr. Edward Bever to make final revisions and
corrections from Faculty Senate Committee for MR II.
Met with Len Davis and Bill Kimmins to discuss and make
revisions to MR II.

45. December, 2004 —Final Edits (Third Phase)
46. December 1—***E-mailed out revised copy of MR II.
MRI document will be submitted to SUNY System.

visit the campus.

Interlocutors from SUNY will

Subsequently, a memo of understanding will be developed

cooperatively by SUNY System and the campus.

Ii.

Notes

Initially MRII was due in June 2004, at SUNY System.

SUNY decided that the June

date was unrealistic for them and changed the deadline to July 15, 2004.

But, because

many Old Westbury faculty would not be around in the summer and because faculty

would not be readily available at the start of the fall semester, we requested October

15, 2004.

Subsequently, the deadline date was extended to November 15, 2004,

because we needed more time for full campus participation. The faculty, however,
thought that more time would be advantageous and requested the President to make

one last appeal for the deadline to be December 15, 2004. The request was approved
and we will now submit the document on or before the deadline.
To date, (twenty four) faculty, (twenty four) staff, (four) students, and (one) college
council member have participated in this process. There have been a total of fourteen
(14) revisions. The Senate Chair requested an additional Faculty Senate review
process. The President requested that a committee of faculty serve as Faculty Senate
Representatives who would recommend edits for his approval. The committee
consisted of the following: Dr. Edward Bever, Dr. Rita Colon-Urban, and Dr.
Amanda Frisken.
KEY:

* Italics = MR II Discussions at Faculty Senate Meetings
** Underline = Working Drafts Sent to Committees

*** Bold = Completed and Revised Drafts Sent to All