wy

How does a four year degree become a six-and-a-half year degree? | EAB

(@

What
We Do

Careers

Vv

Blogs v

Events v

Contact Us

Why
EAB

Y

EAB Daily Briefing

Your
FAB

Page 1 of 6

Welcome, Patrick

Search

®

Q

EAB / Blogs by EAB / Student Success Insights Blog /
How does a four year degree become a six-and-a-half year degree?

® Student Success Insights Blog

How does a four year
degree become a sixand-a-half year degree?
10:00 AM on May 12, 2017 by Ed Venit

It's no secret that college costs a lot.
One good way to help minimize the expense is to do everything in our

power to shorten the total time it takes for students to get a degree. We
might not have much latitude to reduce the price of a year’s tuition, but we

can absolutely do more to control the total amount that an individual student

pays by reducing unnecessary delays and roadblocks along the path to

getting a degree.
Reducing time to deaqree isn't a nanacea. Same

students have obligations to work or family that
prevent them from taking a full-time course

https://www.eab.com/blogs/student-success-insights/2017/05/how-does-a-four-year-degree...

4/23/2018

How does a four year degree become a six-and-a-half year degree? | EAB

Page 2 of 6

load, putting a ceiling on their pace to degree.

Subscribe

Furthermore, shortening time to degree doesn't

Stay current on the latest

address the root cause problems associated
student success news
with rising tuition costs, so there is a fixed
upper limit to the cost savings, even for full-time students.
That said, there are concrete and avoidable reasons why students who
should be graduating in four years are not. We recently came across a study
from the University of Wisconsin-Madison that attempted to document these
factors and quantify their impact in terms of the average number of months
each event added to a degree. Here are some of the biggest culprits:
¢ Choosing certain majors. Some majors often require more than the
traditional 120 credits to graduate. For example, UW students in STEM
majors took an average of two additional months to graduate. Nursing,
Engineering, and Education students also took longer to finish.
e Enrolling in fewer than 15 credits per term. Each part-time term added an
average of 2.6 months to degree. Similarly, full-time students that
attempted an average of 12 credits instead of 15 credits took 4.5 months
longer to complete.

¢ Failing a class. Each failed credit adds three-quarters of a month to a
degree, meaning that each F in a three-credit course extends time to

degree by a little over two months.

¢ Stopping out. On average, stop-outs took 1.4 additional years to

complete. While these students were not paying tuition while stopped out,

they suffered the opportunity cost of not being employed in a bachelordegree paying job during that time.

These are not uncommon events, and the cumulative impact is staggering.
Consider this: A UW biology major who averages 12 credits per term, fails a

couple of classes, takes one part-time term, and stops out once would be
expected to take six-and-half years to graduate!

https://www.eab.com/blogs/student-success-insights/2017/05/how-does-a-four-year-degree...

4/23/2018

dow does a four year degree become a six-and-a-half year degree? | EAB

Page 3 of 6

In order to provide transparency to its students, The University of Texas at

San Antonio has begun publishing the average additional loan burden
students would incur for taking more than four years to finish. If our
hypothetical biology major took an extra 2.5 years to finish at UTSA, she
would end up with an added $8,000 in loans in addition to whatever out-of-

pocket tuition she was paying. This isn’t even the full extent of her added

cost, as she would also be missing out on whatever salary that she could
have earned during that time. The true cost of these commonplace

delays in

graduation would be in the tens of thousands of dollars.
What can we do about this? Without a doubt, some of the reasons for these

delays sit squarely on the student. But plenty of others could be assuaged or
eliminated through proactive efforts from the institution.

Our student success research team spent a considerable amount of time last
summer compiling every student success best practice we've ever published,
an effort that resulted in the Student Success Best Practice Library. The
Library covers a wide range of topics including special advising, early
intervention, and career development, but no single topic has garnered
more attention from our research teams than degree planning and progress.
We've identified six areas where schools can have the biggest impact

inflecting time to degree and gave each their own sub-category.

1. Developmental education.
Developmental courses have notoriously high failure rates, and the students
who take them are, by definition, starting from behind in college. How do we

help these students catch up and graduate in the shortest time possible?

Note than many of these best practices were gathered from our friends in

the two-year space, where developmental education is one of the biggest
student success issues.

2. Degree planning.
As the saying goes, “failing to plan is planning to fail.” What kind of structured
guidance should we be providing students as they select courses and lay out
long-term academic roadmaps? Of note, we have written extensively about

https://www.eab.com/blogs/student-success-insights/2017/05/how-does-a-four-year-degree...

4/23/2018

How does a four year degree become a six-and-a-half year degree? | EAB

Page 4 of 6

t
degree maps, a practice that is coming back into vogue with the interes
building around Guided Pathways.

3. Degree progress.
As noted above, multiple small deviations such as under-loading or

withdrawing from a course can add up to significant additional costs for
students. This subcategory addresses how progressive institutions are

working to mitigate all these factors and keep students making good

progress to degree.

4. Progress incentives.
A small handful of institutions are further encouraging degree progress by
rewarding positive student behavior with additional financial aid. This

subcategory addresses how these progress grants can drive summer
enrollment and increase the number of students taking full credit loads.

5. Capacity planning and policies.
Some capacity-constrained institutions suffer from course bottlenecks that
impede student progress. This subcategory addresses how schools like these

are using progressive planning policies to alleviate bottlenecks and ensure
_ students don't need to take extra semesters to get the requirements they
need.
6. Course correction.

Perhaps the most important practices are those that help off-track students
get back on track. In this subcategory, you will find a wealth of innovative
ways to provide students with a second chance. These practices will be of
special interest to schools with large numbers of part-time and working
students.

| strongly encourage you to take a few minutes to browse one or more of
these subsections and consider how these ideas might be adapted for your

institution. You can download the PDFs and share with your colleaques.

https://www.eab.com/blogs/student-success-insights/2017/05/how-does-a-four-year-degree...

4/23/2018

\Y