SUNY University Faculty Senate

Volume 1, Issue 1

Plenary Report

Stony Brook University—January 21-22, 2016
Executive Committee Meeting, Thursday, January 21
Executive Committee Meeting
Dominated by Budget Discussion

information on Presidential
searches.

In addition to their usual duties of
responding to committee reports,
refining resolutions and discuss‐
ing the President's report,
the Executive Committee was
forced to respond to the upcom‐
ing winter snow storm. The
storm that eventually dumped
over 20" of snow in NYC was rap‐
idly advancing up the eastern
seacoast. It was forecast to hit
Stony Brook around 2:00am on
Saturday. As a result, the group
decided to cancel the Saturday
morning meeting and combine
two days into one.

Campus Performance Improve‐
ment plans were submitted in
October. The Provost and Chan‐
cellor approved all of the plans
after some give and take. The
plans look at Access, Completion,
Success, Inquiry and Engagement.

President Pete Knuepfer pre‐
sented his President's re‐
port. The report covered some of
the key initiatives and actions at
SUNY. These include the follow‐
ing: Performance Improvement
Plans, SUNY Investment Fund,
Executive Budget Proposal, Ap‐
plied Learning Initiative, TeachNY,
UFS vice President changes and

SUNY announced the first phase
of "winners" for the $18 million
(M) investment fund. There were
a number of themes used to de‐
termine the final awards. These
are Data Systems, Procurement
and SmartTrack. Winners of the
other portions of the $100 M will
be announced later this semes‐
ter.
The Executive Budget Proposal
received the greatest amount of
discussion. Stacey Hengsterman,
SUNY's Chief of Staff and Director
of Government Relations was
quoted "This year's Executive
Budget represents a substantial
improvement from last year's in

terms of a starting point for nego‐
tiations." President Knuepfer
made the following observations
on the Governor's proposed
budget:
‐No money for SUNY pay raises,
no maintenance of effort
‐$485 M cut from CUNY senior
colleges (about 30%)
‐Concerned that funds negotiated
to restore the CUNY cut will come
from SUNY.
‐SUNY doesn't want Governor to
back off of his support for tuition
‐Some legislators want
"maintenance of effort"—
increased base operating support
from the State—and no tuition
increases
‐if SUNY does not gain the au‐
thority to raise tuition and the
legislature does not approve
maintenance of effort, SUNY
could lose $78 M in real terms
‐State funding for higher educa‐
tion has declined across the coun‐
try.
‐SUNY is doing better than most.

CGL Student & Faculty Governance Workshop:
Working Together to Improve Campus Climate
March 5-6, 2016 - Hilton Garden Inn Albany/SUNY
1389 Washington Avenue, Albany NY
Registration and Hotel Information
Joe Hildreth, Recorder
Designed by Carol Donato

518‐320‐1376
800‐547‐1548
carol.donato@suny.edu

Special Thanks
To our Hosts

Inside this issue:
Executive Committee

1

Report from Chairman McCall

2

Chancellor Zimpher and Faculty Concerns

3

Provost Office Report

4

Applied Learning

5

Resolutions

6

Page 2

Friday Senate Plenary Session, January 22, 2016
The Senate received a video welcome
from Stony Brook President Samuel
Stanley. In addition, Provost Dennis
Assanis and Campus Governance
Leader Ed Feldman welcomed the
group.
Eileen McLoughlin, Senior Vice Chan‐
cellor and Chief Academic Officer was
scheduled to provide a budget report,
but she was unable to arrive in time
to give her report. President
Knuepfer was able to use the Power
Point prepared by Ms. McLoughlin
and he provided the Senators and
Campus Governance Leaders with an
update on the status of the SUNY
budget.
The Governor's Budget provides sup‐
port for renewal of SUNY 2020. Presi‐

dent Knuepfer mentioned the $485
M cut to CUNY and his concern that
negotiations to restore funding could
result in cuts to SUNY or at least an
inability to secure additional funds
for SUNY. Other items mentioned
were:
‐SUNY System/campuses receive
$708 M
‐Loss of $4.7 M in salary support
from current enacted 2015‐16
budget
‐Add of $10.0 M for a Clean Energy
Workforce Program
‐No increase in FTE support for Com‐
munity Colleges
‐Continuation of SUNY 2020 will pro‐
vide up to a $300 annual tuition in‐
crease through 2020‐21
‐Dream Act will allow students with‐
out lawful immigration status to be

eligible for TAP and other NYS schol‐
arship support
‐ $15.00/hour minimum wage for
hourly workers
A brief overview of the annual
budget calendar was provided. The
budget process begins with a SUNY
ask in December. The Governor's
Executive Budget is presented in
January. This is followed by SUNY
advocacy efforts in February and
March. Also, there will be budget
hearings in March. The final budget
is scheduled to be passed by March
31.
The Senate moved to the impressive
Wang Center for lunch and an ad‐
dress by SUNY Board of Trustees
Chairman, H. Carl McCall.
Budget Report - Faculty Senate Winter Plenary 2016

Chairman H. Carl McCall Calls for Diversity
BOT Chairman McCall made a brief
presentation to the Senate. During
his remarks he made three
points. 1) SUNY was founded to be
and open inclusive institution. Conse‐
quently SUNY has developed a sys‐
tem‐wide diversity plan. The plan
requires every campus to hire a chief
diversity officer. This person will
oversee the development of a diver‐
sity plan containing information on
how the campus will recruit more
diverse students and faculty. 2) At
what point do we tell the legislature
that we cannot continue to grow
SUNY based mostly on tuition in‐
creases. The State must do its
part. The students have done their
part. 3) SUNY is engaged in a contin‐
ual effort to promote shared govern‐
ance and make it work. SUNY Voices
is an example of this commit‐
ment. We look forward to hearing
your ideas on how we can improve
shared governance.
Following his remarks, McCall an‐
swered questions from the Senate.
Q. Will there be additional money to

support diversity?
A. Yes. It will come in the form of
student support.
Q. How can you help us improve
shared governance on our cam‐
puses?
A. I am going to urge our Chancellor
to encourage our Presidents to be
responsive to shared governance.
Q. With advocacy in mind, one possi‐
bility is to give the Governor and the
Legislature what they want, then
maybe they will give us what we
want. The Conference Board was a
model for advocacy.
A. Yes, I did chair the Conference
Board. We need to do something like
that. I am concerned over what will
happen to any potential for SUNY
increases if the cuts to CUNY are re‐
stored. Will we be asked to merge? I
hope not.
Q. It seems there are funding models
for the University Centers. The Com‐
prehensive Colleges are feeling unap‐
preciated. How do you feel about
funding the Comprehensive Colleges?

A. I have never had the feeling that
the Comprehensives were not being
adequately supported. I am glad that
you brought this to my attention.
Q. What is the Board doing to sup‐
port our hospitals?
A. We decided that we should have a
governance structure with knowl‐
edgeable people from outside the
Board. Downstate is continuing to
struggle. We really need a first rate
professional at System to help us to
develop strategies for our hospitals.
Q. At many campuses, fees are being
created to help the campus sur‐
vive. These fees are on top of tui‐
tion. What is your position on fees?
A. I am concerned with fees. It
makes it more difficult for students
to afford college. We must do bet‐
ter.
The Senate showed their apprecia‐
tion for the Chairman with an enthu‐
siastic round of applause.

Page 3

Chancellor Zimpher Responds to Faculty Concerns
Chancellor Zimpher addressed the Senate
via a video conference call from NYC,
having chosen not to join in person due
to the impending storm. Following Chan‐
cellor Zimpher's introduction, the various
sector leaders asked questions developed
from sector discussions.
Campus Governance Leaders
Q. We ask that campus presidents be
required to report on how campus gov‐
ernance organizations were included in
the development of performance im‐
provement plans.
A. I think we talked about some kind of a
sign off on campus plans. I don't know if
this works.
Q. It would be nice if we could report on
the exact nature of the involvement of
campus governance in the development
of performance improvement plans.
A. A minority report attached to campus
plans would be reasonable. It would be
your assessment of the proposal. I get
that. I appreciate that.
Health Science Sector
Q. How will future presidential searches
for our hospitals be convened?
A. We are moving forward with the
search for Downstate. We are looking for
external candidates to chair the search.
Q. What is your position on donors hav‐
ing buildings named after them?
A. We have a full‐blown naming process
that works most of the time. It is not
unusual for a donor to have a building
named after them. We do have policies
and I hope they were used.
Statutory Colleges
Q. A school at Alfred University has been
consumed by the private side. Were you
consulted?
A. Chancellor Garrett called and in‐
formed me that this move was going for‐
ward. They want to build a college of
business. I was not privy to the proc‐
ess. I think they will have some chal‐
lenges in going forward. I would like to
have a more authentic engagement in
the future. I don't have any evidence of

the engagement of the faculty.
Q. A search has begun for a new
president for Alfred University. Our
existing Memorandum of Under‐
standing needs a revision. How will
SUNY be involved?
A. I don't know if we have represen‐
tatives on the search committee, but
I want representation. We will not
revisit the MOU until the new presi‐
dent is in place.
University Colleges
Q. The comprehensive sector is ex‐
periencing a drop in enrollment. Is
SUNY considering a system‐wide
rational, strategic enrollment plan
that would reduce inter‐sector and
intra‐sector competition?
A. We are trying to be less competi‐
tive and more diverse. We have bro‐
ken down how campuses can use
Open SUNY or some hybrid program
to grow enrollments. We are on
it. It is on the top of our list.
Q. Support is naturally going to be
declining with declining teacher edu‐
cation enrollments. How will SUNY
support teacher education programs
so that the programs maintain excel‐
lence?
A. We have tried to say that teacher
education is an across the board ef‐
fort. Education schools need to work
more closely with schools of arts and
sciences. You would think that
should be obvious. We need to work
more closely with our campuses to
involve all of our disciplines. We are
working with our education schools
to resolve the problem.
Q. We have heard much about cer‐
tificates, badges and layered creden‐
tialing. What do you see as the role
of the comprehensive colleges in this
discussion?
A. We are trying to unbundle our
degrees. What are the Carnegie clas‐
sifications? We will resolve this issue
by forming a task force to determine
what our degrees consist of.

Colleges of Technology
Q. We understand the Governor has
proposed $15 M to use in the develop‐
ment of the Clean Energy Workforce
Improvement program. As the technol‐
ogy sector is proactive in clean energy
research and leaders in workforce de‐
velopment, we are interested in how
the $10 M targeted for the state oper‐
ated colleges might be distributed to
the tech sector campuses.
A. We have not been mandated on how
to distribute those funds. What we
need is a process on the way we distrib‐
ute the funds. If you are competitive,
you will win.
Q. We hope presidential reviews will
contain evaluations on diversity, full‐
time/part‐time faculty ratios and
whether bias initiatives have been im‐
plemented.
A. I want to know why you have an in‐
terest in full‐time/part‐time faculty ra‐
tios. I know part‐time faculty make
valuable contributions. I would like for
you to develop a thought piece on this
issue. I don't know how to respond to
part‐time faculty's interest in a broader
engagement when this will result in a
reduced role for our full‐time faculty.
A. I want to start with our diversity ini‐
tiative to bring diversity leaders to our
campuses. More than a third of our
presidents reflect gender balance. We
have less success in other areas of diver‐
sity. You are never going to have a di‐
verse group of presidents if you don't
have diversity in your search pool. I am
trying to be as involved as possible. We
are trying to get this right.
University Centers
Q. We are concerned about support in
the Governor's budget. Our infrastruc‐
ture is failing. SUNY is not providing
adequate support. We need to reinvest
in our university centers. Will you help
us?
A. Well, you would not want me to say
no. We have a major push to get more
protection for our campuses in SUNY
2020. The fact of the matter is that sala‐

Page 4

Chancellor Zimpher (continued from page 3)
2020. The fact of the matter is that
salaries have been exempt. We did not
get support for salaries in the
past. The University Centers did get
part of the $18 M. We used external
reviewers to help us determine which
proposals would get funds. I feel we
are trying as hard as we can to get sup‐
port for our budgets. I can tell you that
saying we need more money to the
State will not work. I thank you for
your concern.
Following the question and answer
session, the Chancellor made some
additional remarks. I don't live in Won‐
derland. I believe the Governor did
what he wanted to do. Last year when
the editor of Higher Education asked
me if "systemness" was working, I told

him that systemness is producing a
reduction in student debt. Every dime
we have saved in shared services has
gone into faculty salaries. We also
talked about SUNY Excels, our perform‐
ance improvement program. I think
we made our case.
The Chancellor then asked Stacey
Hengsterman to comment on the Gov‐
ernor's budget. Stacey said that during
the last 5 years, SUNY has done a good
job of investing the money provided by
the State. We could receive $40‐50 M
new dollars in the Governor's new
budget. That is pretty good. If we can
get more, we will use it to pay faculty
salaries. UUP is pushing the clean work
force energy idea. We will take more
any way we can get it.

The Chancellor received one final ques‐
tion.
Q. In your State of the University ad‐
dress, you mentioned Open
SUNY. Would you speak to this?
A. What I said was that we are extend‐
ing our Open SUNY capacity. We still
have to work on the revenue stream. I
want to expand Open SUNY capac‐
ity. We need to ensure that we have
online partners in the business com‐
munity. We now have the beginnings

Alex Cartwright, University Provost, Shares His Thoughts on Moving Forward
Provost Cartwright presented his re‐
port via a video conference call from
Albany. Today I am going to spend a
lot of time talking about where we are
going. First, I want to recognize some
of the events impacting our cam‐
puses. He mentioned the incident that
produced student protests in Potsdam
and how campuses shared university
police to help address the problem. He
also mentioned the murder suicide at
Geneseo. He felt that impacted the
entire campus.

plete SUNY Excels summaries were
shared electronically with the Sena‐
tors.

The Provost mentioned that SUNY is
interested in the following:
1) Diversity and Inclusion
2) Student Completion and Success
3) Impact of State and Global Chal‐
lenges

Open SUNY 2.0 stands for Optimized,
Personalized, Education, and Net‐
work. Is it possible to have a student
taking classes from many SUNY cam‐
puses in order to obtain a de‐
gree? How should we use the enor‐
mous amount of SUNY data that is
available to us?

He then spoke about SUNY Excels. The
metrics of Access, Completion, Success,
Inquiry and Engagement have been
used in campus plans. During his pres‐
entation he said that he wants our
community colleges to achieve a
graduation rate of 28% (compared to a
national benchmark of 19%). The com‐

In his discussion of a SUNY‐wide enroll‐
ment management plan, the Provost
said that a high priority would be
reaching 150,000 degrees by 2025/26.
Later, the Provost asked if it was possi‐
ble for SUNY to define micro‐
credentials? How do we assure quality
for these degrees?

Several questions were asked following
the Provost's presentation.
Q. I question whether a student can
obtain a legitimate degree when they
are taking courses from all across the
System. Which campus would grant

that degree?
A. If a student needs a credential for a
job, how does a student do that? It is
something that we need to talk
through. I understand the concern
about taking courses from multiple
campuses. I don't have an answer for
that, but I do think we should explore
how it should be done.
Q. A consulting firm was hired to ad‐
vise on Open SUNY. They recom‐
mended that a President be hired for
Open SUNY. What do you think of this
idea?
A. I think a lot about people who want
to come back and take a degree. I am
just asking that as we move forward,
that we think about how they can do
that.
Provost Cartwright concluded his pres‐
entation by saying "I just want to say
that I am bringing you my raw
thoughts. I want to have some help
from you on these ideas.
Provost's Report - Faculty Senate Winter Plenary 2016

Page 5

High impact Practices of Applied Learning
Elise Newkirk‐Kotfila, Director of Allied Learning, led a panel discussion on high im‐
pact practices of applied learning. The panel members consisted of
Janet Nepkie, Distinguished Service Professor, SUNY Oneonta
Nancy S. Goroff, Professor and Associate Provost for Integration of Research, Educa‐
tion, Professional Development, Stony Brook University
Allison Puff, Professor of Visual Communication, Farmingdale State College.
Elise Newkirk‐Kotfila said the first deadline is February 15 when campuses will be
required to submit an inventory of current applied learning efforts. Applied Learning
must include preparation, orientation and training. Some current concerns are what
the impact of every SUNY student working in local communities will be. Additional
information on the subject can be found in the Internship Guide as well as the Ap‐
plied Learning Report posted on the University Faculty Senate website.
SUNY Faculty Senate ‐ Plenary Meeting Information
Allison Puff elaborated on the benefits to student and faculty that these experiences
provide.
Nancy Goroff shared a process through which the internship will enable the student
to have a deeper understanding of their area of interest. In particular, she has devel‐
oped a framework that emphasizes reflection and monitoring, codified in a contract.
Janet Nepkie emphasized the value of applied learning as high impact (see guiding
principles for SUNY internships).

During the dinner on Friday night, NYS
Senator Ken LaValle, Chair of the Sen‐
ate Higher Education Committee re‐
ceived the “Friend of the Senate”
award. Senator LaValle has been a
reliable supporter of SUNY for many
years. The UFS is fortunate to have
this kind of loyal support. He offered
remarks about the value of SUNY and
the importance of increasing State op‐
erating support to SUNY.

SUNY University Faculty Senate Executive
Committee
Peter L. K. Knuepfer,
President
Pete.knuepfer@suny.edu

CUNY University Faculty Senate &
The Faculty Council of Community Colleges
Terry Martell, Chair CUNY University Faculty Senate and Nina Tamrowski,
President of the Faculty Council of Community Colleges each addressed the
Senate and shared the major concerns and initiatives impacting their respec‐
tive governance organizations.

SUNY Faculty Senate Nominations Committee Report
The afternoon session ended with a report from the Chair of the Nominating
Committee. He reported that two nominations have been received for the
position of UFS Vice President. The Committee will continue to receive
nominations until 5 weeks before the Spring Plenary. The person being
nominated must be a member of the body.

www.system.suny.edu/facultysenate

Gwen Kay
Vice President/Secretary
Gwen.kay@oswego.edu
Fred Walter
University Centers
Fred.walter@stonybrook.edu
Joe Marren
University Colleges
marrenjj@buffalostate.edu
Rebecca Marinoff
Health Science Centers
rmarinoff@sunyopt.edu
Timothy Gerken
Colleges of Technology
gerkentw@morrisville.edu
Peer Bode
Special/Statutory Colleges
peerbode@hotmail.com
Fred Hildebrand
SUNY System Administration
Fred.hildebrand@suny.edu

Page 6

Resolutions
172‐01‐1
Resolution Recommendation the
SUNY Wide Implementation of Pre‐
ferred Name and Gender Identity Ap‐
plications on the Registration, Email,
ID cards, and other Identification Sys‐
tems
Whereas the SUNY Board of Trustees
passed a resolution on September 10,
2015 “to make SUNY the most inclusive
higher education system in the coun‐
try”; and
Whereas SUNY has “defined diversity
broadly to include race, ethnicity, relig‐
ion, sexual orientation, gender, gender
identity and expression, age, socioeco‐
nomic status, status as a veteran,
status as an individual with a disability,
students undergoing transition (such as
transfer, stop‐out, international stu‐
dent acclimation), and first‐generation
students”; and
Whereas “SUNY’s approach must em‐
ploy best practices to attract diverse
students, faculty, staff and administra‐
tive leaders, including efforts to
strengthen the pipeline of diverse indi‐
viduals with advanced credentials; en‐
sure that services are in place to sup‐
port retention (of faculty and students)
and foster student completion at a rate
that closes existing achievement gaps;
and implement programs and strate‐
gies to establish a welcoming environ‐
ment for all”; and
Whereas members of designated
groups require specific action plans to
be taken on their behalf to ensure in‐
clusive and equitable learning and
work environments; and
Whereas the practice of using “non‐
legal” names for the purposes of iden‐
tification is long standing on our cam‐
puses; and
Whereas the practice of using a
“preferred name” does not change a
person’s “legal identity” but creates
equitable access to a person’s lived
experiences and intimate realities; and
Whereas being forced to use a name
that does not represent one’s lived

experience and intimate realities is po‐
tentially harmful, traumatic, and damag‐
ing to a person’s health and wellness;
and
Whereas students who are transgender,
adopted, in domestic partnership, transi‐
tioning, victims of domestic violence,
those with non‐traditional family struc‐
tures and any other number of possibili‐
ties such as members of ethnic, religious
or indigenous groups, desire the right to
have access to preferred name and gen‐
der identity representation on our cam‐
puses; and
Whereas being able to use one’s pre‐
ferred name is a reasonable accommoda‐
tion that enhances our cultural climate
and acts as a mechanism for inclusion
and creates a welcoming environment;
therefore,
Be it resolved, That the University Fac‐
ulty Senate recommends that SUNY Sys‐
tem Administration require a SUNY‐wide
implementation of preferred name and
gender identity policies and processes so
that all faculty, staff, and students can
equitably represent themselves on our
campuses with their preferred names;
and
Be it further resolved, that the University
Faculty Senate recommends to all Cam‐
pus Presidents, Chief Information Offi‐
cers, and SUNY System Administration
that they implement the necessary proc‐
esses and software to allow faculty, staff,
and students the ability to use their pre‐
ferred name and gender identities; and
Be it further resolved, that preferred
name and gender identity policies and
processes allow for flexible identity
based on context and contact so that
faculty, staff, students, patients, and visi‐
tors can use a preferred name and gen‐
der identity on campus while not being
“outed” at home or work; and
Be it further resolved, that the University
Faculty Senate recommend that the
SUNY Chancellor and the Chairperson of
the Board of Trustees make access to the
use of preferred name and gender iden‐
tity a standing policy of the Board of
Trustees and SUNY System Administra‐

tion.
Background
The Chronicle of Higher Education
states that “Another concern cited by
many study participants was not being
able to include their chosen name
(which for many differs from their birth
name) or their gender identity on cam‐
pus records. More and more colleges
are creating a process for students to
have their chosen first name (some
institutions refer to this as preferred
name, but it is not a preference) on
course and grade rosters, advisee and
campus housing lists, online directo‐
ries, email addresses, unofficial tran‐
scripts, and identification cards and
diplomas. But only about 150 colleges
currently offer this option. There is no
legitimate reason for colleges not to
provide a chosen‐name option; it is
legal to do so in all states, and software
systems used by campuses can be
modified to accommodate an addi‐
tional first name
Only about a third of the colleges that
allow students to add a chosen name
also enable them to change the gender
marker on their campus records, unless
they have changed their gender on
legal documents, which in many states
requires undergoing gender‐affirming
surgeries. Having the gender marker on
campus records match one’s gender
identity and expression is important in
instances when gender comes into play
at colleges — such as for housing,
locker‐room, and bathroom purposes.”
http://chronicle.com/article/Leaving‐
No‐Trans‐College/233754/?
key=TgpJxK1EIaUfogHu3cAXSVIc43vcq
mHjA1L‐LH‐‐
Q41CbEpibzU3U2tDQ2l2ckowUWViV‐
TROSFNJRUZQeUJ5MGFmdVN3UGxlaG
xB
172-01-1
Passed without dissent

Page 7

Resolutions (continued)
and biological sexes; therefore,
172‐02‐1
Resolution Recommending the SUNY
Wide Implementation of Gender Inclu‐
sive Spaces
Whereas the SUNY Board of Trustees
passed a resolution on September 10,
2015 “to make SUNY the most inclusive
higher education system in the country”;
and
Whereas SUNY has “defined diversity
broadly to include race, ethnicity, relig‐
ion, sexual orientation, gender, gender
identity and expression, age, socioeco‐
nomic status, status as a veteran, status
as an individual with a disability, stu‐
dents undergoing transition (such as
transfer, stop‐out, international student
acclimation), and first‐generation stu‐
dents”; and
Whereas “SUNY’s approach must em‐
ploy best practices to attract diverse
students, faculty, staff and administra‐
tive leaders, including efforts to
strengthen the pipeline of diverse indi‐
viduals with advanced credentials; en‐
sure that services are in place to support
retention (of faculty and students) and
foster student completion at a rate that
closes existing achievement gaps; and
implement programs and strategies to
establish a welcoming environment for
all”; and
Whereas members of designated groups
require specific action plans to be taken
on their behalf to ensure inclusive and
equitable learning and work environ‐
ments; and
Whereas students, faculty, and staff
who have gender expressions and gen‐
der identities that do match with male
and female designated spaces—
bathrooms, locker rooms dressing
rooms, and residential housing—are
often unwelcome and unsafe in these
spaces; and
Whereas to create a welcoming and safe
environment for faculty, staff, students,
alumni, and visitors all campuses must
have spaces that accommodate a fluidity
of gender identities, gender expressions,

Be it resolved, that the University Fac‐
ulty Senate recommends to the Chancel‐
lor, Campus Presidents, Chief Student
Affairs Officers, Chief Administrative
Officers, and Chief Diversity Officers that
they create gender inclusive spaces on
all campuses and at System Administra‐
tion where there are currently only male
and female designated spaces; and
Be it further resolved, that the Univer‐
sity Faculty Senate recommends to the
Chancellor, Campus Presidents, Chief
Student Affairs Officers, Chief Adminis‐
trative Officers, and Chief Diversity Offi‐
cers that gender inclusive spaces be
marked per their intended use without a
gender designation and these spaces be
placed on campus maps; and
Be it further resolved, that the Univer‐
sity Faculty Senate recommends to the
Chancellor, Campus Presidents, Chief
Student Affairs Officers, Chief Adminis‐
trative Officers, and Chief Diversity Offi‐
cers that gender inclusive housing be
provided to all students on all campuses
and this housing be part of regular stu‐
dent housing; and
Background
1. BOT Memorandum September 10,
2015: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Policy
172-02-1
Passed
——————————————————‐
172‐03‐1
Resolution to adopt the Undergraduate
Academic Programs and Policies Com‐
mittee report entitled “Service‐Learning
in SUNY: Current Status and Strategies
for Implementation”
Whereas, the service‐learning subcom‐
mittee of the 2014‐2015 Undergraduate
Academic Programs and Policies Com‐
mittee has researched, collected data,
and produced a report entitled “Service‐
Learning in SUNY: Current Status and

Strategies for Implementation”; and
Whereas, the report is the culmination of
interviews with campus service‐learning
champions from 54 institutions in the
SUNY system; and,
Whereas, the report provides a baseline
knowledge from which service‐learning,
as a form of applied learning, may be
understood, explored, and improved at a
system‐wide level; and,
Whereas, the report makes the following
recommendations:
1) Individual campuses should take
time to define service‐learning for
their campus and set criteria under
which courses can be designated to
include service‐learning, consistent
with guidance from the Applied
Learning Steering Committee
2) Disseminate information effec‐
tively on campus. The report yields
a number of ways that faculty and
students learn about this opportu‐
nity.
3) Assess the outcomes of service‐
learning.
4) Provide incentives for service‐
learning to increase the number of
participating faculty and students
(e.g., through tenure and promotion
criteria, small grants, and recogni‐
tion awards),
Therefore, Be It Resolved that the Uni‐
versity Faculty Senate of the State Uni‐
versity of New York adopts the “Service‐
Learning in SUNY: Current Status and
Strategies for Implementation” report
and encourages campuses to follow the
four recommendations developed as a
result of the report’s findings.
Background
The subcommittee on service‐learning of
the 2014‐2015 Undergraduate Academic
Programs and Policies Committee investi‐
gated how service‐learning is executed
throughout the SUNY system. Individuals
on this subcommittee include Andrea
Zevenbergen (Fredonia), Dan White
(SUNY Polytechnic), Amitra Wall (Buffalo
State), Ramona Santa Maria (Buffalo

Page 8

Resolutions (continued)
State), Michael Jabot (Fredonia), and Sarah Titus (Fredonia). Inter‐
views with individuals involved in service‐learning on the various
SUNY campuses were conducted between November and March.
One knowledgeable representative from each campus (e.g., coor‐
dinator of service‐learning) was interviewed. In total, interview
data were obtained from 52 of the SUNY campuses.
The following is excerpted from the conclusions that will be pre‐
sented in the service learning report. Andrea Zevenbergen from
Fredonia is the first author and principal contributor to the analy‐
sis. “Ninety percent of the SUNY campuses participated in this in‐
vestigation. Of these campuses, approximately three‐quarters of
them have service‐learning opportunities for students on the cam‐
pus. The university centers and university colleges are more likely
than the colleges of technology and community colleges to have
service‐learning opportunities. On most campuses, service‐
learning is optional, rather than required. Approximately one‐half
of the campuses which offer service‐learning have at least one
program of study which requires service‐learning. On most of the
campuses which offer service‐learning, there is no minimum num‐
ber of hours established for students to complete. Most of the
campuses that offer service‐learning opportunities complete at
least some assessment of service‐learning, but the types and com‐
prehensiveness of assessment strategies vary across campuses.
Campuses have generated many ways to inform students and fac‐
ulty about service‐learning opportunities. On most campuses that
have service‐learning, students receive credit for participation and

the credit is integrated into a typical course. With regard to
service‐learning policies, the most common campus‐wide
policies apply to criteria under which courses may be desig‐
nated as including service‐learning. Many campuses have
recommended forms for faculty, students, and community
partners including contracts, applications, student time logs,
and assessment measures. Most faculty and professionals
on the SUNY campuses do not receive additional compensa‐
tion for including service‐learning components in their
courses. In general, financial resources for service‐learning
are limited. When resources do exist, they are typically used
to support the development of courses that include service‐
learning, student transportation to service‐learning sites,
and training opportunities for faculty and professionals.
Reported barriers to service‐learning occurring on the cam‐
puses included lack of administrative support and campus
infrastructure for service‐learning, lack of financial re‐
sources, and lack of time for faculty and students to partici‐
pate in service‐learning.”
The subcommittee has included recommendations and an
appendix with the report that includes best practices, typi‐
cal forms, and ways of integrating service learning into the
curriculum.
172-03-1
Passed