SUNY / College at Old Westbury
Faculty Meeting
Meeting Minutes - February 15, 2002
Attendance: 51

Report from Faculty Senate Chair (Rosenthal)
a. The Chair introduced Mary D’ Antonio, who thanked the faculty for the excellent record
of SEFA contributions, and encouraged continued support.
b. Today’s agenda will be changed to delay the President’s report to accommodate his late
arrival.
c. The following recent governance actions were reviewed
i.
Approval of General Education plan
ii.
Approval of policy on external evaluators for 5-year CAP review of departments
iii.
Approval of rotating common hour plan
d. Future governance activities were summarized
i.
There will be a meeting on 2/20 for new faculty. This will be an orientation
meeting to raise concerns and plan ahead
ii.
The Rights and Responsibilities Committee will develop a faculty ethics statement
regarding the treatment of adjuncts
iii.
The Student Life Committee will be reactivated during the next few weeks.
iv.
The President has created a committee to draft a coherent mission statement for the
college. Faculty will soon be appointed to this committee

e. These governance issues remain unresolved
i.

ii.

iii.

Faculty continue to have concerns about discretionary salary awards. The DSI
committee chair has sent committee procedures to the chair, and the issue will be
discussed at the upcoming Senate meeting.
The College-wide Budget and Planning Committee is not functioning well, in the
view of governance. The Senate recently passed a resolution to withdraw faculty

participants if there is no improvement by April 1*.

There has been no movement on the issue of non-expiring parking stickers and ID
cards for permanent employees. This will be revisited after the planned acquisition
of new equipment.
f. The Chair presented an update on the land scandal. The Stubbolo brothers have been
indicted and the Governor signed a land bill reserving 300 acres of the campus as
“forever wild.”
Report form the Academic Vice President (Bonnett)
a. The EOP program received a FIPSE grant
b. Plans are complete for a 3+3 program leading to enrollment in the Hofstra Law School.
The program, housed in several departments (PES, AS, H&L, ELS), will be submitted for
approval by CAP, then Senate and finally State Ed. There will be a workshop for
students on getting to law school during the 2/27 common hour
c. Bonds have been issued and on-campus planning committees formed for two new

buildings: the Academic Crescent and Science Building Extension.
d. H. Lewittes will now chair both the General Education and Assessment Committees
e. Ten students and two faculty from the School of Business visited China’s Shandong
Finance Institute, with which the College is engaged in study abroad relationships
f. There has been much progress in technology on campus - smart classrooms are in place,
the library has new workstations
Questions / Comments

A question was raised about Faculty Development Awards. Dr. Bonnett is forwarding a
recommendation on these funds to the President today, and expects to make an
announcement about the awards next week.
Freshman Year Experience (N. Sacks)
a. Faculty were invited to attend the 3/4 TLC meeting at 12:40, at which time she will
describe the Freshman Year Experience in more detail
b. Across the nation, 70% of campuses offer a first year experience, and the trend is toward
a mandatary, for-credit course that is part of General Education

c. The inherited structure of the program has been implemented, with eleven sections of
Freshman Seminar in Fall and two in Spring that are mandatory for new students. Staff
members include C. Anderson and P. Cheshire.

a resource area, and a “hangout” for students.
begun.

There are also extracurricular activities,

Assessment of the program has already

Questions /Comments

Dr. Bonnett commended N. Sacks and C. Anderson for their work. He encouraged faculty to
participate in extracurricular activities, noting that retention has been shown to improve
when there is more student - faculty contact.
Budget and planning Committee (M. Dolan)
a. As chair of the BPC, M. Dolan summarized recent issues only. L. Davis submitted a
projected $23M budget for this year, but SUNY has indicated that we will only receive
$19M. The gap is anticipated to grow to $5 in next year’s budget. President Butts
indicated that the BPC will play an active role in developing a framework for decisionmaking regarding potential cuts.
b. There has been little progress in establishing guidelines for effective budget and planning
on campus. Problems with BPC functioning led to the 2/1 Senate resolution to remove
faculty representatives from the committee unless progress is made by April 1*.
c. A summary of this report is attached
Library (D. Stalker)

a. New developments were summarized
i.
Redesigned web page
ii.
Creation of departmental liaisons
iii.
Newsletter due out in March, edited by W. Shenouda
iv.
Oversight of instructional technology programs, including Blackboard

2

b. To decide on priorities for expending limited funds, the library sent a survey to chairs
asking for review of current journal subscriptions
Questions /Comments

a. Faculty asked whether there would be remote access to electronic databases. This is
presently unaffordable at a cost of several thousand dollars per month.
b. It was noted that a cut in journal subscriptions, along with the limit of 5 interlibrary loan
items per week, will be problematic for students conducting senior research
Report from the University Faculty Senate (M. Dolan)
a. Stenson, Vice Chair for Budget, presented a $6.2B budget request for 2002/2003. Faculty
can view the request in the Senate Office.
b. There was no request for a tuition increase, but the Senate proposed a resolution to ask
the Chancellor to lobby for a rational fiscal policy for SUNY support
c. The Chancellor wants funds in the capital plan for new buildings to be accompanied by
dollars for maintenance, operations and lines.

d. The guide for evaluating undergraduate programs was accepted. This will be sent to
departments.
e. The SUNY Senate is sponsoring a symposium on retention on 3/21and 3/22 at Cortland

10. UUP Report

a. The next General Membership meeting is 3/6 at 12:30
b. A Getting to Tenure Workshop is in the planning stages
c. UUP is conducting a membership drive for part-timers. Faculty were asked to send the

names of any such people to the UUP office

d. There will be a UUP-organized trip to a NY Mets game in May.
11. Old Business
Faculty were reminded to pick up swipe cards for access to smart classrooms.
12. New Business
a. The UUP passed a resolution to condemn Candace de Russy’s comments about Academic
Studies Programs. A motion to support the UUP resolution was approved [34-4-0].
Furthermore, the following resolution was adopted [35-2-1]:
Whereas, Candace de Russy’s research was lax in failing to note that the Black
Studies program she attacks at SUNY/Old Westbury does not exist, although we
agree that one should, we strongly support the UUP resolution
b. Dr. Bonnett expressed his view that untenured faculty should not cast votes on RPT
decisions at the department level. He believes that this practice creates competition, and
is not allowed on most campuses. The practice may be defensible on the college-wide
committee. This issue will be followed up in the future.
c. There has been a change in the day of future graduation ceremonies form Sunday to
Friday. The Senate was asked to discuss this change
d. A film series is being held this spring in the library, room L107, on Wednesday and
Thursday nights (flyer attached).