STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday May 18, 2018 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100





*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive





Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), William Gillis (Senator At-Large, Alt. Univ. Senator), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Yu Lei (MMF) , Blidi Stemn (CE) , Jillian Nissen (BS), Deepa Jani (EN) , Veronika Dolar (PEL), Lisa Whitten (PY), Shijian Li (PH), Amanda Shigihara (SY) , Eric Hagan (VA), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)

  

Senators Absent:  Linval Frazer (AC) , Andrew Hashey (EE) , Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Judy Lloyd (CP), Jingyi Song (HP), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Chris Hobson (ARPT), Llana Barber (LEC), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP Inst. Adv.), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Nancy Brown (Dean SOE)



Visitors:  Chris Notaro, Joanne Spadaro, Yumi Nicholson, Shalei Simms, Anthony Barbera, Ed Bever, Christa DeVirgilio, Duncan Quarless, Omar Estrada Torres





MINUTES

			   I.	Call to Order 12:36pm							

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of Apr 27, 2018

			

			The minutes are approved by voice vote.

			

 III.	Faculty Senate Chair’s Report  

SPAAR Task Force:  Faculty governance is working with the Office of the President to create and charge the SPAAR Task Force, which will create and charge the Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, & Review Committee (SPAAR) to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Strategic Plan. 

Action Item: Senators, please advise the EC about your willingness to participate on the SPAAR Task Force and/or SPAAR Committee.  Active faculty participation will be crucial to the success of SPAAR and the Plan.

Micro Credential Working Group: In response to a request from CAP, the EC is creating a working group to draft a proposal to be submitted to CAP and the EC for approval by the Senate. The working group could consist of one representative each from the following: SOB, SOE, SAS, SPS, TLRC, APPC, CAP, Registrar, Academic Affairs, SGA.  

Current members:  SPS: Ed Bever (convener,) AA: Duncan Quarless, Student Affairs: Jamie Jones, SOB: Cary Lange, Advising: Jon Kleinman, SAS/ASMC: Joe Manfredi.

Representatives requested: Registrar, SOE, SAS. TLRC, APPC, SGA.

Action Item: Senators, are you willing to represent your department and serve on this working group? Contact the FS Chair if you are interested.  

Committee Vacancies Filled: The Faculty Senate Chair is charged with filling committee vacancies that remain unfilled after the election.

TLRC: Erica Chien, SOB representative, runner up, two year term: 2018-2020.

ASC: Roger Mayer (BU), runner up, two year term: 2018-2020.

LEC: Fernando Guerrero (ML), Foreign Languages Domain, one year term: 2018-2019.

			IV. 	President’s Report

			

			The President cannot be here today.

			

			V. 	Provost’s Report

			

			Commencement is on Sunday at Nassau Coliseum.  Parking nearby is available before 8am, or a shuttle bus is available from NCC.  It will start promptly at 9am.  Direct any questions to Pat Smith.

			

			VI.	University Senator Report (Laurette Morris)

			

			Please see attached handout.

			Are we a participating in the Re-Enroll To Complete initiative?  Informally we did this, but not as part of a SUNY initiative.

			Many campuses are strained due to increased enrollment.  We are in better shape than most.  Maybe more students are motivated to move here.  There are both recruitment attempts by SUNY system and rising demographics.  Some campuses were not prepared.  The system administration is regularly addressing problems.

			Is there any mechanism for transfer students to be no longer counted as attrition?  There is no adjustment right now.  When the EC met with Chancellor Johnson she agreed that we need new metrics.  The Provost reports that at a cabinet meeting we discussed this with Chancellor Johnson further.

			Cross registration between campuses is possible.  We need to advise students about this.

			

			VII.	Faculty Senate Chair Nomination & Election

			

			Andrew Mattson is nominated by Laura Anker.

			Andrew Mattson is elected by unanimous consent, by voice vote (0 opposed, 0 abstain).

			

			VIII.	Old Business

			

				A.	Resolution on Carbon Footprint (Maureen Dolan)

			

In response to questions from the floor at April 27 FS meeting, a Supplement has been included with the resolution with references for energy and sustainability policies in SUNY and NYS, a sampling of best practices in campus sustainability, and information on carbon emissions and carbon offset.  A phrase was added to connect it to the Strategic Plan.  We have an important designation as a tree campus.  This is at odds with the parking lot construction.  There needs to be some way to compensate for the carbon footprint impact.

The eighth Whereas of the resolution cites Article X of the BOT Policies, but Article X is specific to faculty authority regarding the educational program. Our Bylaws describe the authority of the faculty to review and oversee administrative policies and decisions, consistent with SUNY governance practices.  Move to remove the reference to Article X.  Expand the “consistent with practices” part to also say board of trustees and system administration.  It is better to cite senate resolution or joint effort.

			The first resolved is moot because the trees have already been cut down.  Perhaps we can use Google maps to look at the aerial view.  Not all of the trees are gone, just some.  Tree removal was previously stated as over 8 acres as part of Phase II.  

			Senate chair would deliver to the President later after the resolution is passed.

			Designated parking for faculty could be part of a later resolution.

			Are there requirements for being designated as a tree campus?  We should look into specifics and whether or not there is an arborist who comes and checks.

Beyond the policies and principles stated in resolution, perhaps tabling the resolution and looking into specific requirements for Tree Campus designation may give the resolution more teeth.  This is seconded since it is better to say we want to comply with specific certification.

			Who is going to make this happen?  There is going to be a Green Committee.

			Suggest that after the third Whereas another Whereas be added that says it is a charge to the Green Committee.

			Motion to table is seconded.  The bylaws may permit this since it says, “by electronic means”.  In a previous chair report, it is noted a number of things were voted on electronically.  The motion is tabled unanimously by voice vote (0 abstain, 0 object).

			

				B.	OER Resolution	

			

			In the second resolved, 4th bullet:  we will hopefully have more than one instructional designer.  Change to “a” not “the”.

			At the bottom “all member” should have an “s”.

			Passed by hand vote: 21 in-favor, 0 abstain, 0 opposed.

			

			IX.	Call to Senators:  Other New Business

			

				A.	CAP Resolution for Economics Minor (Frank Sanacory)	

			

			There are no real additional resources here.  It is part of the puzzle to later create a major in Economics.  It would be great to vote over the summer electronically.  Frank Sanacory will be on sabbatical past Jun 15.  It might be included in the new catalog if it is approved asap.  Senators should have an ability to go back to their departments.  Perhaps one week.  We can email this to all faculty, and direct faculty to direct their comments to their senator.  Vote will be due by next Wednesday.  The email will be sent today.  There will be a google poll.

			Update as of 5/25/18 - electronic voting was conducted:  19 in favor, 0 abstain, 0 opposed.

			

				B.	Do we have a plan to establish a recycling program on campus?  This would be part of the Green Committee.

			

				C.	Recognition of the Service and Leadership of a Retiring Senator Minna Barrett.

			

			There is unanimous consent (no objection) to enter it into the record.

			

			X.	Announcements

			

				A. 	All faculty are invited to the faculty reception at Jericho Terrace on Tuesday. 

			

			XI.	Adjournment 2:19pm			

			

			

			



4