Provost Report to the Faculty Senate – 11-5-21

SUNY Implementation Guidance for General Education

Our campus responded on October 22, 2021 to the General Education Implementation guidance mainly expressing our desire to maintain the integrity of our existing LEC, with comments directed largely to the GE Framework.  SUNY does not have any plan at this time to revisit the GE Framework, and is now focused on the implementation.   

General Education Implementation guidance is expected likely in the form of a MTP (Memorandum to Presidents) in December 2021.  Similar to what occurred with Seamless Transfer several years ago.  I would anticipate a very short commentary period, if at all, prior to receiving the MTP, once it is presented at the BOT meeting next week.    

The preparation for implementation, as it currently stands, will provide us with one year to deal with all of the moving parts that are necessary for SUNY GE compliance fall 2023:

What is the anticipated timeline for full implementation? It is anticipated the SUNY Board of Trustees will consider the SUNY General Education Framework in fall 2021; guidance issued early winter 2022; full implementation for new students fall 2023.

Double-dipping on Requirements within degree programs?

Minimum of 7 of 10 Knowledge and Skills Areas + 2 Core Competencies

Knowledge and Skills Areas (a minimum of 7 of 10 categories of knowledge and skills are required) The following four are required 

Communication – written and oral 

Diversity: Equity, Inclusion, and Social Justice 

Mathematics (and quantitative reasoning) 

Natural Sciences (and scientific reasoning) 

In addition, a minimum of three of the following six are required 

Humanities 

Social Sciences 

The Arts 

US History and Civic Engagement 

World History and Global Awareness 

World Languages 

Core Competencies – both required Critical Thinking and Reasoning, Information Literacy



Learning outcomes? – some mapping will be required, particularly for GE learning outcomes that have changed.  For example, Communication – written and oral; Natural Sciences (where the campus can decide on some discipline-related substitutions)



“GE” Courses approved at the campus level (good news)



Registrar and Degree Works 



Communications for Students (Prospective Students)



GETA (General Education Transfer Addendum) and Seamless Transfer



Winter shutdown policy

Email from October 22, 2021

The SUNY Old Westbury campus will be minimally staffed starting from Thursday, December 23, 2021, until Sunday, January 2, 2022.

During this time, the New Academic Building (NAB) and Student Union (SU) will be closed for energy efficiency. All other buildings will be open and heated during this period including the residence halls. Employees located in the NAB and SU can be moved to an alternative location within the Library. All buildings will be patrolled regularly by our Campus Police staff and all alarms will be operational. Additionally, arrangements for sufficient heating in areas of the campus, which include animal facilities, ongoing scientific experiments, and computer operations will be made.

Departmental supervisors and their corresponding Vice President will determine a plan to provide an in-person presence for their respective areas to ensure that they are minimally staffed. All employees (except those designated as essential service employee) are encouraged to use vacation, personal time, or compensatory time accruals during this time when the College would ordinarily be in full operations. For employees who wish to be off these days, please submit your “Request for Time Off” to your supervisor for approval.

If you have any questions concerning how SUNY Old Westbury will be operating during this end of the year holiday period, please contact your immediate supervisor or a member of our Human Resources team by phone at 516.876.3179 or by email at HR@oldwestbury.edu.



Student Withdrawals – 

Academic Affairs supports the academic success agenda for our students.  Please let deans and AA know of any occurrences of student withdrawals (in cases that may not be initiated by students with your permission to withdraw).  



LMS Migration

CourseArc – Chandra will be reaching out to faculty to assist with EIT Accessibility Compliance for digital content in Blackboard.

Have roughly one year to get through the migration process to Brightspace.  ITS/AA will provide updates as additional information becomes available.



International Education

Promoting COIL (Collaborative Online International Learning).  Becky Evans and Barbara Hillery will follow up with the faculty.

Still some unresolved concerns about Study Abroad (Liability insurance costs).  Will provide additional information over the courses of the next couple of weeks.