SUNY/COLLEGE

at Old Westbury

Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, October 4,2002

12:30 p.m-2: 30 p.m.

Room C 102 Academic Village
Present:

K. Velsor, M. Crocitto, K. Wood, C. Butts, M. Barrett, J. Conforti, M. Barrett, I.

Ahmed, A. Barbera, D. Watson, M. Metlay, M. Keizer, S. Mahmoud, C. Hobson, M. Keefe, A.
Blasius, B. Kalmans, G. Snedeker, M. Miller-Lamb, L. Whitten

Visitors:

1.

C. Wardell, R. Gonzalez, R. Welton, M. Rankin, N. Sacks

Approval of Minutes for Friday, September 20, 2002
Minutes were approved with corrections for misspelled names, changing the location from
Albany to Rye (p.2, third paragraph) and inserting “for fall” (p.4, second to last paragraph).

Report from Faculty Senate Chair (C. Velsor)
The Chair’s report was given by Vice-Chair, C. Velsor. P. McLaughlin, M. Metlay, M.
Altabet were unanimously approved for ppointment to the General Education Committee.
The following were announced:
Wed. October 9, President’s Convocation.

Students were asked to dress in business attire.

The Old Westbury Foundation will be offering “A Taste of Long Island” at $150.00 per
person. Faculty will be receiving invitations.
An ideas for Senate to initiate and/or discuss, please e-mail the Chair or Vice-Chair.

Report from the President
Since the President had nothing new to bring to the Faculty Senate beyond what he presented
at the General Faculty meeting of September 13", he invited questions.
a. Budget - J. Conforti inquired that at the September meeting it was noted that two colleges,
Alfred and Old Westbury, had 5% budget cuts while other campuses received 5%.
Why? The President responded that we did not receive a cut but were funded at the same
level as the previous year. According to Len Davis, this year it was $19.8 versus $19.1 the
year before. Our funding did not meet our need to run the College at a bare bones level, so
our funding was increased by $3.3 million and is now at $22.6 million.
The President expressed optimism that the meeting on October 16" between the Associate
Vice Chancellor and members of our administration will yield a plan to increase our
funding this year and next year. C. Hobson asked for clarification about the purpose of the
meeting on the 16". The President stated the meeting was to maximize our current

resources.

The President noted that we need to look closely at what we offer in terms of courses and
how they compare with those of our competition. There is some discussion about moving to
a three credit hour system, since some students believe it would take them longer to
graduate under our current system. G. Snedeker noted the advantage of four credits for
evening students and M. Crocitto commented that Binghamton emphasizes its four-credit
system.

The main issue is that our goals are the same as SUNY’s goal, that we operate on our
MOU, and increase enrollments to demonstrate to SUNY that we need additional funding.
The President noted in his travels he has noticed new buildings on a CUNY campus in the
midst of budgetary constraints, so monies are available. We need to work with SUNY
Administration so that we have access to funding.
b. DSI- Becke Kalmans raised the question of why equity was not included as a DSI
category. R. Gonzalez responded that right now the emphasis is on merit, which doesn’t
mean equity is not considered. A. Blasius and M. Barrett commented that historically
equity was considered first and then merit. The President noted that merit has been
considered before inequity since 1999 but that equity has been considered, especially for
people out of range. R. Gonzalez stated that there are recommendations from faculty
currently before the Committee to see if the issue can be better addressed.
c. Budget and Planning
The President is waiting for recommendations from the faculty of the names of individuals
willing to serve.
d. L. Whitten asked about Town Hall meetings.
dates.

Mona Rankin will supply the scheduled

The President thanked everyone and stated he will be at the remainder of the aia
anything else comes up.

4.

if

Report from the Academic Vice President
a.

Ruben Gonzalez took questions for the AVP who is in Albany discussing the Masters
program and other academic issues. He noted merit applications were received and the
AVP will receive recommendations from the Committee in the next two weeks.

b.

The applications for Presidential Faculty grants will be reopened to November 1* as only
two were received. They were not from new or junior faculty. One purpose of the grants
is to promote the development of new faculty. The terms of the grants were changed.
Previously, faculty could only apply no more than twice in five years.

c.

M. Metlay encouraged people who have not applied to consider applying. G. Snedeker
asked about the criteria, which seem restricted to very specific things. M. Metlay
responded the Committee would consider anything related to research or improving
teaching, even for a small amount of money necessary to support a project.

d.

R. Gonzalez also announced they are setting up a committee chaired by Judy Walsh to
respond to specific requests from the Commission of Higher Education.

5. Report from CAP Committee (M. Colaneri)
M Colaneri gave the report for previous chair G. Wachman, who is on sabbatical.
a. The Committee approved the proposal for an M.S. in Accounting.
b. No new majors were approved. The B.S. in Industrial and Labor Relations was
withdrawn. A preliminary proposal for a B.S. and B.A. in Economics was
encouraged to go forward. A Marketing minor proposed by the Management,
Marketing, and Information Systems Department and.a Multicultural Language and
Literature from the English Language Studies Department were approved.
c. Faculty lines were ranked by the greatest need as follows: Two replacement lines in
Political Science; a new line in Video Production; a replacement line in
Biochemistry; and a new line in religion proposed by Humanities and Languages.
d. CAP approved external evaluation reports for departments consistent with SUNY
mandates. The Committee approved the Five-year Reviews submitted by the
Industrial and Labor Relations Department and the Psychology Department. A
revision by Humanities and Languages was also accepted. The Math Department was
to revise and resubmit their report by December.
e. CAP approved a 3+3 accelerated program with Hofstra Law School.

6.

Report from ARPT (M. Barrett)
a.

b.

M. Barrett, Chair ARPT

distributed a report.

Two additional members, John

Biondo and Mervyn Kaiser have agreed to serve on ARPT so they can meet a
quorum. The Committee still needs untenured faculty to serve.
The report from the AVP agrees with Department and ARPT voting. The
exception was Case 7 with a three-year recommendation from the Program
and ARPT but an administrative decision of a two-year contract. A. Barbera
raised the issue of whether business was considered one department although
it has three senators. M. Barrett suggested we look at the Bylaws; a precedent
has been set in terms of proportion of faculty since members of a Program
step off ARPT when someone from their department comes before the
Committee.

The Chair and ARPT Committee were thanked for their work in handling a large
number of cases.
7. Report for the General Education/Assessment Committee
This report was deferred, as there was no representative able to attend the meeting.
8.

Update on O.S.S.D (G. Snedeker)

G. Snedeker announced a workshop on the ADA and distributed relevant information.
He noted another resolution ha been passed to ask the President to arrange for the
necessary staff, space and technology to provide access and reasonable
accommodation as federally mandated. However, the federal government does not
provide funds for compliance. Old Westbury is understaffed in comparison with
local area and CUNY schools. As of now, one of two paid staff members has been

terminated and will not be replaced. The National Council on Aging provides any
secretarial help. Since the O.S.S.D. office provides direct academic services to
students and is therefore, not analogous to health services for psychological
counseling, four recommendations are offered:

1) Define the job description for the new Assistant Director so that the job’s
2)
3)
4)

primary tasks include the provision of direct services to students rather
than administration.
Purchase necessary technology such as those which enlarge print and
screen reading software with due haste.
Allocate an adequate budget.
Consider the administrative feasibility of moving O.S.S.D. office to the
Office of Academic Affairs.

Discussion included comments by M. Barrett that the services provided by O.S.S.D.
are equivalent to other academic services such as the Math Lab. It is discriminatory
to not provide proper services and equipment to accommodate disabled students.
A visiting student expressed his frustration over lack of accommodation and
perception is that this neglect is coming from the top. Craig Wright believes this is an
opinion, not fact and that we should look at the root of the problem. He also noted
that O.S.S.D. started in Student Affairs and that he assigned $34,000 for purchases.

The current budget is $9,345.
Resolution

R. Kalmans read the resolution “In Condemnation of the Terrorization of Hindu
Minority Professors in Bangladesh,” which had been distributed. One individual
directly involved was a former recent Old Westbury student .

After some discussion over the question of whether this was an appropriate issue for

the Senate and deciding it was, along with suggestions to further involve human
rights groups the resolution was unanimously passed.
10.

New Business

A resolution proposed by the American Studies In Support of Civil Liberties at

SUNY New Paltz was distributed. After some discussion about the propriety of
advising other campuses how to distribute funds and the broader issues of academic
freedom, the motion to adopt the resolution carried with votes of 10 yes, 5 No, 0

abstentions.

B. Kalmans asked for assistance in drafting a resolution against U.S. foreign policy in
Iraq. G. Snedeker announced a demonstration Sunday afternoon opposing President
Bush’s plan for Iraq.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:20 p.m.