STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FULL FACULTY MEETING
Friday, October 4, 2019
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location: Natural Science Bldg - S100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

Minutes
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Calvin Butts (President), Patrick O’Sullivan
(Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP Inst. Adv.), Mona Rankin (Executive VP), Barbara Hillery (Dean,
SAS), Nancy Brown (Dean, SOE)
Faculty Present: Ozgun Akgun, Kyle Anderson, Laura Anker, Jermaine Archer, Llana Barber,
Ashok Basawapatna, Robert Bednarczyk, Catherine Bernard, Lee Blackstone, Kenneth Brown,
Carolina Bustamante, Tejas Boukas, Jillian Crocker, Tom DelGuidice, Christa DeVirgilio, Maureen
Dolan, Veronika Dolar, Bonnie Eannone, Alireza Ebrahimi, Jacqueline Emory, John Estes, Fred
Fleisher, Amanda Frisken, Juan Galvis, Lina Gilic, Helidon Gjeriji, Eric Hagan, Patty Harris, Chris
Hartman, Christopher Hobson, Curtis Holland, Peter Ikeler, Deepa Jani, Camille Jones, Svetlana
Jovic, Seojung Jung, Rachel Kalish, Michael Kavic, Mervyn Keizer, Mohamed Khalefa, Zenaida
Madurka, Joseph Manfredi, Manya Mascareno, Andy Mattson, Roger Mayer, Patricia McLaughlin,
Elizabeth Morphis, Laurie Morris, Runi Mukherji, Fernando Nieto, Jillian Nissen, Sheyi Oladipo,
Morales Orquidea, Diana Papademas, Do Young Park, Lillian Park, Lisa Payton, Carol Quirke,
Jeanne Shimizu, Shalei Simms, Jing Yi Song, Blidi Stemn, Diana Sukhram, Erin Toolis, Kerry Weir,
Lisa Whitten, Sara Williamson, Ryoko Yamamoto, Lori Zaikowski
Professional Members of the Senate Present: Ana Martinez, Jon Kleinman
Visitors: Anthony Barbera, Ed Bever, Jacob Heller, Ruomei Gao, Matthew Lippert, Cris Notaro.
Yumi Nicholson, Jerrell Robinson
0.

Meeting arrival and sign in.

12:20 p.m.

I.

Call to Order

12:30 p.m.

II.

Approval of Minutes for May 10, 2019 (Full Faculty meeting)
5 minutes (end 12:35)
- Holding off on the approval of these minutes until next meeting

III.

Faculty Senate Chair’s Report
5 minutes (end 12:40)
- There are vacancies on faculty committees that must be filled by the senate chair.
o SPAAR committee needs one more faculty member from the School of Arts and
Science.
1

-

-

IV.

o CAP committee needs one more member from the School of Arts and Sciences
o PRODIG committee, the chair is Duncan Quarless. We need a couple of more
faculty who could be senators. Working on the search process to guarantee
diversity among the faculty
PRODiG initiative is to double the number of underrepresented faculty,
also programs to improve the pipeline for students
Faculty Cancelation Task Force: Volunteers needed. Every year when students do not
pay their bills, their classes get cancelled. This task force would look into the previous
cancellation and look into what could be done about it in the future
o what if anything was unique to this semester that would cause a decrease
o question from the gallery: is this data analytics? Yes, data will be applied.
o This is a presidential task force and needs to be approved by the president
Our executive committee has a change this semester, Dana Tomlin is on parental leave
and Chista Devirgilio, the alternate senator in the library has stepped up to take over
for her in the meantime.

Provost Report
20 minutes (end 1:00)
- Anthony Barbera; our next middle states visit will be in the spring of 2021.
- Usually chaired by the president of another college, before they come we need to
prepare a self-study report and it must be complete by December of 2020.
Beginning this semester, 8 working groups consisting of 126 people from across
the campus, administrators as well as faculty, student and alumni are working to
verify that we are working in compliance w
- If you are on a working group, please attend your meetings
- A couple of advantages, first you learn about the college and second you meet with
people outside of your department
- An opportunity to put a face with name, breaking down the silos
- For the college, it’s important that we are accredited by a regional accreditor,
without it, students cannot use financial aid.
- Steering committee meets every two weeks, the other groups meet as they feel the
need to.
- Provost: the steering committee met and its impressive
- By June the 30th you were supposed to submit a yearly report, SUNY requirement,
there are quite a few reports that are still outstanding
- We go to the annual report to look at the performance of the individual faculty, if
you have not sent it in, please do so, we use it for many different things among
them is discretionary raises
- Next, newly hired faculty please come up and introduce yourselves
- Name and department, PhD of each was given. Nine faculty showed and
introduced themselves
- Yesterday’s cabinet meeting, there were three presentations, one was enrolment
management, media and communications and the last on smart scholars, the
presentations were splendid, one he is considering having a presentation on is
about enrollment. One of the things we have to concentrate on are the more nontraditional students. We need to provide the service to those. We have the school
of professional studies, the provide those with a large amount of credits and to
help them turn those credits into a degree.
- Looking into how we can help those who are under served and would benefit from
a college degree.
- We were not able to meet the targets that we sent out to meet and he wants
everyone to pay attention to the students that we have so that we can retain them
2

A.
VI.

Introduction of New Faculty

10 minutes (end 1:25)

Faculty Governance Orientation

55 minutes (end 2:20)

(see attached: Overview of Governance, Points of Information)

A. Introduction to Faculty Senate (10 minutes)
- The faculty senate website was introduced and all of the facets were explained
- The list of committees
- The bylaws
- Members of the executive committee which theoretically meets with the
president once a year
- Vice chair needs to be filled, Andy Mattson will not be able to be faculty senate
chair next year so someone will have to step up
- Senators represent stake holders, represent stake holders. Resolutions are
supposed to come from the bottom up, itis supposed to come from the
departments, senators are supposed to be bringing agenda items and
resolutions to the senate
- Senators then need to report back to your departments so that they can react if
needed
- A gallery comment: faculty senate is not just faculty, students and professional
staff, all members of cabinet are ex officio members
B. Introduction to SUNY Governance (10 minutes)
- Laurette Morris: (university faculty senator) three-year term representing the
campus system wide; entire senate body meets 3 times a year to address a variety
of issues that affect faculty and staff and quality of life on campus. The SUNY
chancellor is always there, the different groups of campuses meet.
- Very interesting we meet at different campuses throughout the system
- Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian): tying together some loose strings, our
governance structure with university senate, the board of trustees who has the
ultimate authority under education law, empowering the faculty to selfgovernance, she just wants to call to our attention some of the language and talks
about the fact that we as faculty have an obligation to participate, the education
program at the very least fall into our committee structure.
- The input and the participation of the faculty impact our ability to be affect and
serve our students. Our committee structure follows that
- We are all part of governance and that is our obligation to participate and we are
always looking for new people to participate and we will always need additional
people to serve
President report:
- Work is going on but bureaucracy stops him and his hands are tied at every turn
he takes. He has been working with Ray Magiore to see about the leaks in the
ceiling in the science building
- He knows it’s not enough just to fix the leaks, we need the new stem center over
100 million dollars
- We need 70 million to start, he was told to find private funding
- Our new program with downstate medical center and students looking for science
and math we need the new building and we are working very hard
- He thanks the faculty for teaching and service
- We had a very nice beginning to the semester, mold problem is not unique to this
campus, other than the faculty, six confirmed reports of mold and we have
addressed them
3

-

-

-

Students who say their belonging have been damaged, there is a procedure to get
reimbursed.
Dr. Butts is willing to talk to any student who is still having trouble. Facilities and
maintenance are looking to address every issue
He feels that the issue is that we need new buildings, largest number of enrolled
students in the history of Old Westubry
We can continue to grow; our strategic plan takes us to 2023
The areas that students want are in the stem field
Thanks to faculty senate and thank you to Chair Mattson
We got a big grand, from US department title three, strengthening institutions
grant program, Dean Hillary and Cris Notaro who got this done.
He attributes a lot of the good things that happen at OW to her hard work
Cris Notaro led late summer charge to capture continuing students, the old
retention thing, get them back in, helps numbers he deeply appreciates it
Middle states, Anthony Barbera, he feels he is very hard working, work groups.
There are at least 110 people engaged already this semester
Thanks Margaret Torell, Anthony Barbera and Jacob Heller
We are looking for a new president, we vetted several search firms and we are
down to 9, we should have one soon, these firms cost between 80 and 100
thousand dollars.
Dr. Mario Mignone passed on and left a void in the College Council
We are trying to get a very strong president to come in and take this college to a
place where it should go.
Search firm search is led by the department of business and finance
The colleges budget is now 49 million over all, most is tuition and fees, 20% in
state support and 12% from college reserves. He applauds the work of Len Davis
Fierce market for students, we are looking at budget reductions ahead either for
mid-year or next year. He does not know what the state will do but our reserves
are thin now, his instincts tell him the state will do less and less
Take advantage of SUNY PRODIG initiatives, he welcomes and thanks the new
faculty that are here and there is some diversity among the new appointees but he
wants more, he’s asking, if you know some faculty that are talented suggest to
them to put their names in.
Faculty housing is still on his radar
Looking for under-represented minority faculty and women
You can say whatever you want on this campus, one of the great things about being
on a college campus is there is a sense of freedom and you can present any side of
an argument and present it openly with your students there are so many ways to
express yourself, you have protection of academic freedom on the campus and
protection of the president whether I agree with you or not
And you can invite controversial figures to speak on campus
He protects what we have and he sees what we have here at OW as family. He
stands with all of us.
There should be no question about the protection of a faculty persons freedom of
speech. Gives an example…
He can sense anger and tension but there is a certain freedom that you have, he
realizes people get angry but if anyone has a point of view on this campus just
know it is protected
He has a responsibility to protect everybody on the campus. It makes the people
who work for us, secretaries, people in the mail room, maintenance, it frightens
them and he has to protect them as well.
4

-

-

He is grateful for all that we do and he wants the faculty to know he appreciates
them all and it has been wonderful to work with everyone.
He feels as though working here has made him more open and he has evolved and
hopes that we can cause Old Westbury to soar even more with the new president
He plans to continue to stay involved
Question from the gallery: College Council meeting was cancelled chair of college
council is not here anymore and the college council chair is the mediator between
the college and SUNY so how do we communicate with SUNY in terms of the search
committee. Has the entire search committee been named?
The search committee has been established, we have all the members of the search
committee in place. But the president’s office cannot answer any questions, names
have been sent to SUNY, Dr. Butts will meet with SUNY Chancellor on October 18th.
A thank you for introducing Michael Eric Dyson to the first year program, all the
students read the book and enjoyed it
On our Facebook page there are a number of posts that are not accurate about a
faculty member here, he wants to know what the policy is in terms of slander on
our page and how we can address it.
The policy is, based on best practices in the field, is to leave things up for a while
to make sure there is no further backlash, if you see something say something to
Michael Kinane.
Mona Rankin was thanked for her frankness, this is hers and Dr. Butts final full
faculty meeting.

C. Introduction to Committees: Standing, Special and College-wide (30 minutes)
D. Q & A (5 minutes)
- Academic Policies and practices committee (APPC): we arrange academic
standing hearings for the students three times a year.
- Appointment, Reappointment promotion and tenure committee (ARPT)
- Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP)
- Faculty Rights and Responsibilities (FRRC)
- Faculty University Awards Committee (FUAC)
- Liberal Education Committee (LEC)
- Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)
VII.

Old Business

5 minutes (end 2:25)

A. Micro-credential Badges (E. Bever)
VIII. Announcements
IX.

5 minutes (end 2:30)

Adjournment

5