Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee





Annual Report AY 2013-14





Summary



CAP had an active and productive year in 2013-14. During the year CAP approved 11 degrees or programs (program announcements, letters of intent, program proposals, minors), considered and approved three five-year reviews, discussed line allocations and the line allocation process, updated college catalog information regarding minors, solicited seamless transfer information from all departments and submitted a summary report to the Executive Committee, and held an additional meeting requested by the Provost to hear 8 Letters of Intent and 1 Program announcement.



Officers and Personnel



Cary Lange was elected chair. There were no nominations or volunteers for self-nomination for Faculty Senator. It was decided that since, under the revised bylaws adopted in Summer 2011, all Standing Committee chairs are ex officio voting members of the Senate, Cary Lange would attend Faculty Senate meetings on behalf of CAP.



Degrees and other programs



CAP approved the following: 



A Modern Language minor in Hispanic and Latin American Cultural Studies. This minor is intended to make SUNY Old Westbury more competitive relative to other colleges in the area that already offer similar minors. This minor will be of interest to many students, especially for Education majors given the diversity of the student body. This new minor fits great with the SUNY OW mission to serve underprivileged populations. CAP suggested adding an exit course, such as an internship in the community; and revising the wording to make it 16 credits outside of the major (per current College Catalogue) rather than only 12 credits outside the major. 

Certificate in Spanish/English Translation. Zenaida Madurka presented a written proposal from the Modern Languages Department for a Certificate in Spanish/English Translation. The proposal would add a new course, Advanced Practicum in Translation. The courses  that would be required for the certificate emphasize grammar. The Committee discussed the proposal and suggested some minor amendments. The Committee than voted unanimously to approve the proposal as amended.

Program Announcement for a Bachelors Degree in Hispanic and Latin American Cultural Studies. This was developed in answer to the expressed wish of Old Westbury students to have B.A. options centered on the exploration of culture rather than literature, and leading to immediate professional opportunities rather than the planned pursuit of doctoral studies.

Three Letters of Intent from the School of Education:

Master of Science in Adolescence Special Education (Generalist Grades 7-12) with two tracks: one leading to Initial & Professional certification and the other leading to professional Certification. 

Master of Science in Childhood Special Education (Grades 1-6) leading to Professional certification.

Master of Science in Literacy Education with 3 tracks: 

Track 1 – Literacy (birth-grade 6)

Track 2 – Literacy (Grades 5-12)

Track 3 – Literacy (birth-grade 6 and grades 5-12)



All Master of Science degrees submitted by the School of Education were in response to demand by both current and former students that wanted to obtain a cost-effective masters degree at Old Westbury, but have had to go to more expensive private institutions to do so.



Three Letters of Intent from the School of Business:

Master of Science in Forensic Accounting

Master of Science in Entrepreneurial Leadership and small Business Management

Master of Science in Healthcare Management



All Master of Science degrees submitted by the School of Business were in response to student and market-driven demands. 



Letter of Intent for a Master of Science degree in Social Science Research. This program, housed in the Sociology Department within the School of Arts and Sciences, will establish a strong professionally-relevant Masters level program in the Arts and Sciences. It will include faculty participation from the programs in Politics, Economics and Law, Psychology, Public Health, Marketing & Management and others, including areas of expertise directly related to social science research, as well as substantive electives that may suit individual students’ needs and interests. It will also support complementary programs within the School of Arts and Sciences (the MS in Mental Health Counseling and the pending MA in Liberal Studies) as well as others that are in development.



A Program Announcement for a Bachelor of Science degree in Public Health. This is an extension of a discussion that was held in CAP during the 2012-13 academic year concerning the conversion of the Department of Health & Society to the Department of Public Health.



Resolutions were prepared and brought before Faculty Senate for all programs listed above. 

All were well-received and the resolutions passed. 











Five-Year Reviews

		

In Fall 2010 CAP adopted new procedures regarding Departmental Five-Year Reviews. Previously, these reviews had been prepared by the Departments, presented to CAP, and approved without further action being mandated. The new procedures provide (a) that the Five-Year Review be accompanied by a brief Plan covering projected actions in the next five years; (b) that the Provost and relevant Dean attend all five-year review presentations; and (c) that the Plan be used as the basis for subsequent review by the Dean with the Department.



In addition, since it seemed to CAP that there were departments that were dragging their feet in the completion of their 5-year reviews, yet wanted to submit program announcements and/or letters of intent, CAP presented a resolution to Faculty Senate whereby CAP will not consider or place on their agenda any program announcement or letter of intent for a department whose 5-year review is over two years overdue. 



During 2013-14 CAP considered the five-year reviews for Chemistry/Physics, Math and Public Health. All reports were comprehensive and well written. All reports were accepted and approved, subject to a few minor revisions that were to be made. All requested revisions were made and the reports were submitted to CAP in final form. CAP approved the final versions of all reports unanimously. 



The Department of History & Philosophy was notified that their 5-year review period (2008-13) had ended and they should commence work on their 5-year reviews. However, upon further discussion it was noted that the Comparative humanities degree had been deactivated and a new degree (BA in History) had started in 2008. This would have created a situation where this department would continually be planning or working on a 5-year review. An agreement was reached between CAP and the department that both would have a review period that ends in 2015. Therefore, the review period for Philosophy & Religion will initially be 2008-2015 and for History the initial period will be 2011-2015. After 2015, both degree programs will be on the same 5-year review schedule. 



Faculty Line Allocations



CAP is responsible, each year, for ascertaining Departmental needs for new and replacement lines, discussing these, and prioritizing them in a recommendation to the Provost. Given the ongoing budget crisis which meant new lines were not available immediately, the Committee decided to hold this discussion in the Spring Semester with the hope of shifting the recommendation process to align with the normal academic cycle of posting and hiring, which takes place in the Summer and Fall months. 



CAP received line requests from 9 departments (all from the School of Arts & Sciences)in the 2012-13 academic year. These requests were discussed at several CAP meetings. It was determined that additional information was needed from Academic Affairs with regard to the lines that had been approved during the last two academic years. Upon meeting with Academic Affairs, it was determined that this information was not available in a usable form. In the end, no line prioritization was done, because of the lack of information about lines granted and the fact that relevant criteria could not be agreed upon by committee members. 



Two CAP members (Laurette Morris and Hedva Lewittes) developed a set of rubrics to be applied to the future line requests. This rubric is an attempt to make the line allocation discussions in CAP more less subjective and should go a long way toward doing so. The rubric will be sent to Deans and department chairs along with our line requests, asking that the line requests address the specific items that CAP will be considering in their discussions. 



We will send line requests back to the departments in the current academic year, with our apologies, asking them to resubmit if their requested lines had not been granted, and will take this up again in the 2014-15 academic year.



Update of Minors listed in the college catalog



CAP undertook a review and update of all minors listed in the college catalog. The impetus for this project came from two sources: (1) the approval by CAP of a minor in Hispanic and Latin American Cultural Studies, and (2) One CAP members question regarding how to get the catalog changed for a particular major that was currently listed, but needed to have a couple of course numbers changed. The chair discovered, through discussions with Academic Affairs, that there has never been any process to inform the administration about changes in minors, new minors that should be added to the catalog, or minors that are no longer active. 



The chair solicited input from the chairs of all departments listed as a “sponsoring department” for all minors in the catalog. Responses were compiled and sent to Ron Welton in Academic Affairs for use in the new catalog.



Seamless Transfer report to EC



In November 2013, the chair received an urgent memo for Faculty Senate Executive Committee. The topic of the memo was SUNY’s Seamless Transfer initiative. Seamless transfer was scheduled to be put into effect, transfer paths were posted on SUNY’s website, and each campus was to submit a report on the transfer path posted for each particular degree. And, if there was no transfer path for a degree offered at Old Westbury, to propose one. 



The chair solicited the chairs of all departments to check any applicable transfer paths posted by SUNY and comment on that transfer path as to whether it was reasonable and feasible. If there was no transfer path listed, one was to be proposed.



The chair compiled all responses into a report which was submitted to the Executive Committee in January 2014.





Submitted by Cary Lange October 11, 2014