Be <5

ws,

anal

42. Tue State UNIVERSITY of New YoRK
7aa22 UNIVERSITY FACULTY SENATE
liad
UNIVERSITY OPERATIONS COMMITTEE

"SURVEY of the CAMPUS BUDGET PROCESS |
FINAL REPORT
OCTOBER 2002

Prepared by:

4 =_=

=!

Dr. Maureen Dolan, University Senator
Associate Professor of Mathematics
SUNY College at Old Westbury

Tue Stare Untversity of New York

O

FOREWORD
State University Plaza

Albany, New York
12246

1 800 547 1548
518 443 5326
fax - 443 5327

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Joseph A.Tldeech
josepl
a
Vice President and Se:

James McElwaine

Purchase
Peter Nickerson

One of the many valuable insights I have gained from my experience with the
University Faculty Senate is the importance of the campus budget.

Too often, this is

a subject that is not found to be interesting by many faculty. It should be. Decisions
on where to spend available funds reflect the “real priorities” of a campus
administration in a way that is clearer and more honest than any “State of the

College” paper or “Mission Statement.”

Buffalo Universi

Raymond Guydosh

Plasssburgh
Jeffrey Johnston

Alfred

Peter Knuepfer
Binghamton
Donald Steven

Syste Administration
Joseph G. Flynn
Immed.

Past President

Alfred

Richard Collier
Immed. Past Vice President

Aleany

Edward Alfonsin
Parliamentarian
Pordam
STANDING COMMITTEE

Cars

Awards Co-Chairs
Justin Giordano

Empire

Marvin LaHood

Buffalo College

Governance Co-Chairs

Daniel J. Murphy

UsicalRome

G
bh
*eiacargh

The active participation of faculty in the process will accomplish many things. It
will provide the institution with accountability on the expenditure of limited funds.
It will build trust and morale. Finally, it will ensure that budget decisions reflect the
priorities of the academic mission of the institution.
This report, which was prepared by Maureen Dolan of the Operations Committee,
should be read and reread by every constituent in the SUNY System.

clear summary of budget processes that work. The participatory processes described,
will, in my opinion, make campuses more efficient and accountable in their
administration of the campus budget.
active participant in the process.

h Hildreth
President-University Faculty Senate
October, 2002
Co-Chairs

John DeNisco

=

=

Buffalo
Frederick Hildebran:
"Nowra
FACULTY SENATE BULLETIN
Co-Editors
Vincent Aceto
Norman Goodman
Marvin LaHood
Secre:

Carol Colby

It provides a

I hope the report will move you to become an

dajuaz
B2UaIIS Y4JDa}H

%L'99
%0'001

%0'0

%0'001

“ove

%0'SL

Abojouyse |
Jo aBajjo5
Ado4njo4s
Pazioisadg

abaj\07
Atisuaniuy

S40499¢S jo abojuaouey

_|

dajuaz

Ajisuaniun

loses

%O

R02

*Ov

209

%08

*O0Ol

taquan Ayisuanuy

2621109 Aysueniur)

Pazipoisedg

Adoinyoys

2404UaD eoua!rS Yoo
Abojouyr2 Jo a6a)05

Ato42@.q 1002 / 0002 @0Uag AjnoD4 Ajisu@niUy uo P2S0q UO!DOIJISSD|
9 uoj2eg :,
€
G

g

€I

v

Wt

¢

Guyypoyy uy sasnduag Jo “ony

€

Sulpuodsay sesidimp Jo “oy

v

0

2
G

SH1U2D ALISON YLIM paLDI4JD S.1a4UE9 ZoUA!Ig YAJooH OMY Yt 04 Atayo
undas payiow jou som Aanuing %
2

Aansng 04 6upuodsoy

Sulpuodsay 04295 Jo aGoye200q

SYO.L93S SNAdWVD JO Alva ISNOUSTY

@
V.

1]

BEST PRACTICES in SUNY

A participatory budget process strongly coincides with key goals and values described in
SUNY’s current strategic planning exercise. Itself a collaborative effort of system and campus
constituencies, the university’s plan expresses a commitment to excellence and accountability,
embracing “great expectations and a commitment to change”®. Core values of the university
include: an atmosphere of mutual respect, responsibility and collegiality; a belief that
students/learners are the primary reason for our existence; and a belief that faculty and staff
colleagues are fundamental to our success.

According to survey responses of Campus Governance Leaders and Chief Financial Officers,
substantial variations exist in campus budget processes. After detailed review and analysis, a
model for best practices in SUNY has been derived. Yet serious challenges exist on a number
of campuses, while on others the process is in flux. This section highlights the common

attributes of a fair and effective budget
that are observed across the university.
agree or strongly agree that the budget
as fair and effective by both CFOs and
that comprise the process.

process, as compiled from the successful processes
For those cases where both faculty and administration
process on their campus is working (i.e., it is perceived
CGLs), this report has distilled the distinct elements

Across SUNY, best practices in campus budgeting processes share the following attributes.
(This is not intended to be an exhaustive or exclusive list, but is comprised of information

distilled in the development and evaluation of this survey.) Whether creating a campus budget

committee or refining an existing one, the integration of these 12 elements into the budgeting
process can help achieve and maintain institutional health and constituency well-being.

A Fair and Effective Campus Budget Process: Best Practices
1.

The campus has a Budget Committee.
Of the state-operated campuses represented in the survey response, two-thirds of the
campuses have a budget committee. Respondents were 5 times as likely to rate their
campus budget process as fair and effective when a budget committee exists.

2.

The Budget Committee includes broad representation of campus constituencies.
Committee composition strongly correlates with the perceived effectiveness of the campus
budget process. Processes rated as both fair and effective are far more likely to involve a
budget committee on which faculty predominate, and on which professional staff are also
represented. Within a fair and effective process, such budget committees typically range
in size from 10-20, with average total membership of 15 and a typical distribution such as
as seven faculty, five management confidential staff, two professional staff and one
student. Administrative membership (MC) typically does not duplicate but overlaps with
the President’s Cabinet. Respondents are 26.5% more likely to view the campus budget

process as fair and effective when the budget committee is chaired by a faculty member.
5 “A Plan for the University”, Version 2, 1-28-02

@
3.

12

The Committee meets frequently, with an annual calendar of scheduled meetings.
Frequency of meetings strongly correlates with perceived fairness and effectiveness of the
campus budget process. The majority of effective budget committees meet at least once
per month. No budget committee that meets only quarterly (or semi-annually) is viewed
by faculty as effective.

4.

The Committee follows agreed-upon procedures, and engages in regular assessment of

its activities and overall effectiveness.

An effective budget committee has a formal and consistent process for developing
meeting agendas and annual agendas, an accepted procedure for making decisions and

recommendations, and an established process for regular assessment of its activities and

overall effectiveness. As part of a fair and effective process, the committee makes its
recommendations through consensus or formal vote. Committee members understand and
accept their responsibilities, e.g., as regards attendance, committee work, collegiality and
confidentiality. Only those campus budget committees with a formal process for achieving
outcomes and decisions are seen as fair and effective by both faculty and administration.

5.

The Committee keeps a formal record of its meetings and activities, and communicates
with faculty governance and the campus community.
An effective budget committee produces Minutes that are formally approved by its
membership. The committee makes its Minutes available and provides regular reports to
faculty governance, and also solicits input from the campus community. Only those
campus budget committees that make Minutes available to faculty governance, and solicit
input from the campus community, are seen as fair and effective by both faculty and
administration.

6.

The Administration provides the Committee with budgetary data in sufficient detail.
The perceived effectiveness of the campus budget process strongly correlates with the
level of detail in data provided, and the ease of access to such data. Respondents are 5
times as likely to rate their campus budget process as fair and effective when requested
budgetary data is “relatively simple” to access. For campuses with a successful process,
budget data that is needed or requested by the committee or its work groups is provided in
a timely manner, without undue exercise of discretion by the President or CFO.

7.

The Committee reviews annual budget requests of all Divisions and functional areas.
Respondents are 8.5 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as both fair and

effective when the committee reviews budget data broken by functional area (e.g., general

administration, academic instruction, student services, maintenance and operations, etc.).
It is assumed that all committee members have acquired or been provided with basic
information on the state and SUNY budget - including terminology, timelines and
contingencies - as well as an overview of the institution’s projected annual costs,
revenues and funding sources.

13

8

The Committee has access to historical data and expenditure data.
Respondents are 7.5 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as both fair and
effective when detailed expenditure as well as allocation data is provided. Of all the
respondents rating their campus budget process as fair and effective, all but one indicates
that the budget committee has access both to historical and expenditure data.
The Committee engages in all-funds budgeting.
Respondents are 5 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as fair and effective

when the Committee reviews and makes recommendations on multiple funding sources

(e.g., State Fund, DIFR, IFRs, Auxiliary Services, University Wide Programs). Policy and
decision making for all the funding sources available to the institution ideally do not

reside within one individual; campus
budget committee as well as through
of DIFR through Student Affairs and
Foundation funds through Academic

constituencies should be provided input through the
appropriate fund custodianship (e.g., custodianship
Residential Life, or custodianship of Research
Affairs and/or Project Directors).

10. The Committee makes recommendations on funding priorities.
Respondents are 4 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as both fair and
effective when the committee examines and makes recommendations on funding

priorities. To the extent possible, the committee also makes recommendations on the
allocation of discretionary resources (such as OTPS).
11. The Committee establishes linkages between budgeting and planning.

Respondents are 3.5 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as fair and
effective when the campus budget committee also engages in two or more types of
planning (such as long-range planning, strategic planning, facilities and capital planning,
etc.). An effective budget committee establishes a formal interface with other campus
groups engaged in planning.
12. The Committee seeks an optimal allocation of resources, so as to advance the

institution’s goals and mission.

Overall effectiveness of the budgeting process is correlated to the perceived equity and
effectiveness in resource allocation (where effective is defined within the survey as
“serving to facilitate achievement of institutional goals”). To the extent possible, the
committee seeks to optimize the allocation of resources to areas that add value to the
institution (e.g., academic programs and research) and to streamline the allocation of

resources to overhead (e.g., general administration). To assist in these efforts, the

committee regularly conducts or commissions benchmarking analyses and assessment of

resource allocation effectiveness. Of all survey respondents, 89% of CFOs but only 24%
of CGLs consider the allocation of resources between administrative and academic areas
of the budget to be effective. But for those rating their campus budget process as both fair
and effective, 94% of CFOs and 57% of CGLs consider the allocation of resources
between administrative and academic areas to be effective.

@)

SUNY Old Westbury
Stage 2 Proposal

June 16, 2000
Page 81

SECTION D: SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION AND
COMPLETION
SES anticipates that completion the project in all buildings will take about 12 months after the
audit is complete, depending on the final scope of work. SES will schedule actual
construction work to minimize disruptions to normal daily operation of the buildings.
Accordingly, SES will plan to accomplish the majority of major capital improvements in the
summer except chiller work, which would occur in the winter. Lighting and other ECMs that
occur inside the buildings will be installed either during the summer or outside of normal
occupied hours.
SES expects to meet with SUNY Old Westbury immediately after completion of the
comprehensive energy audit to determine priorities for construction and to develop a detailed
implementation schedule.
The preliminary schedule on the following page is based on implementing the ECMs listed in
this proposal.

Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this report.

S Sempra Energy”
Solutions