Section extracted from the 2016 Approved Faculty Bylaws



Section E: Faculty University Awards Committee (FUAC) (2016 Bylaws Pages 26)



1. Purpose:

The Committee shall, according to the guidelines in Appendix V, evaluate the campus for the Shared Governance Award and nominees 

for the Distinguished Faculty Ranks Awards for Professorship, Teaching Professorship, and Service Professorship, and Librarianship, as well as, the Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence in Teaching, Adjunct Teaching, Faculty Service, Librarianship, Professional Service, and Scholarship and Creative

Activities Awards that are available at the College under the SUNY Board of

Trustees Policies and Procedures (subject to annual revisions).



2. Membership:

The Committee shall consist of 10 voting members including: a Student Government Association

Representative, at least one Distinguished Award recipient, at least three 

Chancellor’s Award recipients, the Old Westbury Faculty Senate Chair (or designee), one member designated annually by the President to act in a voting ex officio capacity, a representative from the library, a representative from the College Professional staff, and at least one faculty at the rank of Professor or Associate Professor with more than 10 years at the College, in compliance with university guidelines. In the event that there is a nomination portfolio for Excellence in Librarianship and/or Excellence in Professional Service, t

he Committee membership shall be modified as stated in the SUNY Guidelines. In the case for Excellence in Professional Service the majority of the Committee is comprised of Professional Staff to deliberate on the file



. To avoid any potential or perceived conflicts of interest, it is recommended that no more than two members from the same department should serve on the committee at the same time.



3. Terms:

a) Seven Faculty representatives shall be elected annually by the Faculty from a slate

prepared by the Nominations and Elections Committee and serve a staggered

term of two-years so that at least three members will be replaced every year. In

the initial implementation of this provision, the four-faculty receiving the

greatest number of votes shall be designated for two-year terms, and the three

faculty with the next greatest number for one-year terms.

b) The Student Government Association representative shall be selected by the student government body, and t

hey shall be approved by the Committee according to the

specifications in Appendix V.

c) A Co-Chair shall be elected to share the responsibilities of the Committee and to Chair the meetings in the event of the other Co-Chair’s recusal.



d) Each semester the Committee will notify the College through the Faculty Senate of the upcoming awards deadlines and  the membership of the committee .  If Committee membership vacancies need to be filled during an academic year following formal annual elections, the Committee will solicit new nominees to fill such vacancies through the Faculty Senate. 







APPENDIX V: PROCEDURES FOR FACULTY UNIVERSITY AWARDS COMMITTEE (2016 Bylaws Pages 54-58)



The following procedural details are recommended, however additional elements of the

procedures will be modified to ensure consistency with the SUNY-wide Policies and Procedures as needed .



The nomination and evaluation process shall begin in June and January of each academic year in which  a call for nominations from the Committee Co-Chairs (i.e. prior to, but in anticipation of, the formal invitation 

to the campus to submit nominees).



A detailed checklist of items required by the Committee to be included in

nominees' portfolios shall be sent to each nominee and nominator. Nominators and nominees should reach out to the Co-Chair(s) of the Committee as soon as possible after the call for nominations to inform them that they plan to submit a portfolio. The process is confidential, and Faculty, Staff, and Administrators should not discuss publicly or privately who or how many nominees will be submitting portfolios.



The nominator and nominee will then be provided with the FUAC Award Guidelines to help them prepare and organize the nominee’s file. Please note that the FUAC Award Guidelines are subject to modification every two years to remain consistent with any changes made at the SUNY-wide policy and procedural levels. 







Applicant File

1. Updated Vita including campus and university service.



2. Representative Teaching Materials: Syllabi from the last three years,

representative exams or projects, representative supplementary materials,

printouts, and special projects.



3. Student evaluations from at least the last three years.



4. Grading records for at least the last three years.



5. Peer review of student evaluations and/or teaching.



6. Peer letters on curriculum development, team teaching, collaboration

etc., if available.



7. Letters of support from former students (alumni).



8. External letters of support are encouraged, but only insofar as they relate

to the criteria.



9. Nominator's Evaluation of the candidate, prepared with the participation

of the candidate. This must address the following:



a. Teaching techniques and innovations



b. Instructional policy/grading and motivating students. How are

seriousness and high

expectations encouraged?



c. A record of inspiring and motivating students. (Indicate the

achievements of graduates.)



d. Special projects and involvements with students or groups; accessibility

to students.



e. How scholarship relates to teaching.



Distinguished Service Professor Applicant File



The following items are to be included in the detailed checklist and are required

for all nominees for DSP:





1. Updated Vita Statement as described in SUNY guidelines



2. Nominator's Evaluation of the candidate, prepared in collaboration with

the candidate. This must address the following:



(a) Candidate's service to the campus

(b) Candidate's service to the University

(c) Candidate's service to the community

(d) Candidate's service to the State of New York

(e) Candidate's service to the nation

(f) List of the candidate's most outstanding qualifications

(g) List of the candidate's major achievements



Committee Statement



Draft summary statements on all nominees will be prepared by at least two

members of the Committee. Assignments to prepare these draft statements shall be made

at random. These drafts will be read to the full Committee for discussion and

modification prior to a later meeting where a vote will be held. This procedure helps to

focus on the strengths and weaknesses of each candidate and ensures  better documentation

of the Committee's deliberations. The draft summary statement of the candidate

who prevails in the vote then becomes the basis for the final summary statement which is

required by the SUNY guidelines. Statements on candidates not selected can be made

available to them for use in preparing for a re-nomination in a subsequent year.



Files must be completed before the deliberations start and, subsequent to the

initiation of the process, no material can be added.



Conflict of Interest and Confidentiality



 Members of FUAC will not participate in the consideration of any nomination from their 

program/department

. 



	Members of FUAC will not participate in the consideration of any nominee with whom they have a close personal or professional relationship. 















	A student member of FUAC will not participate in the consideration of any nominee from the student’s major program or department or of any nominee who teaches a class that the student is taking or is likely to take.  



















Committee proceedings  are  confidential.There will be no

 direct contact between Committee members and the nominee regarding

his/her candidacy while the nomination is under consideration. Any  communication with the nominee under consideration must be through the

 nominator. Committee members will not discuss the Committee's

deliberations with anyone not on the Committee.