Nominations and Elections to the Faculty Senate Executive Committee
Procedural Statement from the Parliamentarian
Prepared by Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian) for the Faculty Senate Meeting of September 10, 2021

References:
 Faculty Bylaws: Article V (Sections BG on Faculty Senate, Officers of the Senate and EC)
 Resolution on Elections to the Executive Committee (including Background section)
 Faculty Senate Website (see Points of Information and Procedural Statements)

Preparation prior to Senate meeting:


Senators should read Resolution on Elections to the EC (including Background) and this related
Procedural Statement, in advance of Sept. 10th Senate meeting. Each Senator has responsibility to
come prepared to meetings, and effectively represent the constituency each is elected to serve.



Any consideration by Senate of temporary suspension of section of Bylaws is a matter of serious
business for governance. Pro Tem changes to Bylaws, if approved by Senate, are subject to further
vetting by Bylaws Working Group for potential consideration by faculty as Bylaws amendments.



Faculty Senate is the deliberative body for organizing and carrying out the business of the Faculty,
with authority under Bylaws to act on behalf of the Faculty when the Faculty are not in session.
SUNY faculty are empowered to create and approve Bylaws and establish campus governance bodies
through their Article X authority under SUNY Board of Trustees Policies.

Affirm Quorum at beginning of Senate meeting:


Affirm that Quorum exists for the proper conduct of Senate business. Given the current membership
of Senate, quorum is established by minimum of 19 Senators in attendance. Note: Senators serving
in multiple capacities (e.g., representing a department, school and/or committee) count as one vote.



For those attending in person: the Chair or designated member of EC (outgoing or continuing) will
conduct hand-count of Senators present. Alternates are counted only if associated Senator is absent.



For those attending remotely: the Senate Chair or designated member of EC will conduct a count of
Senators present using Raise Hand function in Zoom. Alternates will “Raise Hand” only if
associated Senator is absent.



In-person and remote hand-counts of Senators will be combined. If quorum is not established, the
Senate agenda may proceed only with reports and informational items not requiring a vote.

Consideration of “Resolution on Elections to the Executive Committee”


The resolution will be introduced by the Chair or designated member of EC (outgoing or continuing).
Since the resolution concerns substantive matter (i.e., suspension of Bylaws section) and will be
presented and acted upon in single meeting, the body of Resolution (Whereas and Resolved) will be
read into the record. Senators are presumed to have previously read Background section.



Resolution needs a Second before moving to Senate discussion and debate of “motion on the floor”.
o If discussion conveys possible consensus, the Chair or Parliamentarian may move to close debate
then request Motion for unanimous consent. If no objection, motion carries.
o If discussion does not convey possible consensus, recorded vote of Senators is appropriate.
Note: Under normal circumstances, vote is recorded by “show of hands” of Senators present.

Procedural Statement (page 2 of 3)

VOTING on Resolution: Senators may vote Yes or No or Abstain


Only elected Senate representatives may vote.
o An Alternate may vote only when associated Senator is absent.
o Voting Yes (to approve the resolution) will adopt all that is Resolved.
o The Chair may be assisted by designated members of EC in conducting vote on Resolution.



In-person voting:
o Senate representatives attending in person (MPR) may vote by “show of hands” for each
voting option (Yes, No, Abstain).
o The use of paper ballot for in-person voting on Resolution is also possible, and appropriate
if specifically requested by any voting member of the Senate.



Remote voting:
o Senate representatives attending remotely may vote using “Raise Hand” function in Zoom
when prompted for each voting option (Yes, No, Abstain).
o The Chair and EC co-hosts must ensure that Hands are Lowered, in between the prompting
and counting of each voting option.
o Remote voting may instead occur by electronic ballot, if previously prepared.
Compiling final vote count on Resolution
o Chair, assisted by designated member of EC, will combine in-person and remote vote counts,
and report the resulting action by Senate on the Resolution.



OVERVIEW: Executive Committee Nominations and Elections for 2021-2022


Bylaws specify that annual election of EC members (Vice Chair, Secretary/Treasurer and At Large
Representative to EC) will occur during a meeting of Faculty Senate no later than September 15th.
o Faculty Senate Chair is elected at end of previous academic year, no later than June 15th.
o SUNY Senator is elected every 3 years during regular election cycle.
o The Parliamentarian is appointed by the Chair (and may serve under various Chairs).

Additional (2nd) At Large Representative to the EC (refer Article V: section G)
 Nomination/election of additional (2nd) At Large Rep to EC is pending outcome of Resolution.
o Precedent exists for Senate approval of additional At Large Representative to EC (2020-2021)
o Rationale stated in Resolution is based on evolution and increase in EC responsibilities, use of
technology and electronic media, and overall growth in programs, FTE and shared governance.
Expansion of Eligibility Criteria (refer Article V: section D and section B line 8)
 The expansion (broadening) of eligibility criteria for Secretary/Treasurer position and the At Large
Representative(s) to the Executive Committee is also pending the outcome of resolution.
o Vice Chair nominee(s) must meet eligibility criteria for Chair-Elect (i.e., faculty Senator of
academic rank.)


Precedent exists for nomination and election to the EC of contingent faculty and UUP professionals.
o Alternates have not, to date, been eligible for nomination/election to the EC, during three decades
of Faculty Senate governance structure.
o Precedent exists for Senate service by alternates, contingent faculty and UUP professionals as
temporary note-takers, although such service to Senate did not entail election to the EC.
o Rationale stated in Resolution, for expansion of eligibility criteria, cites increased participation
and attendance by alternates and senators at Senate and Faculty meetings held remotely (since
Spring 2020).

Procedural Statement (page 3 of 3)

NOMINATIONS and ELECTIONS for Executive Committee (2021-2022)
Customary order for consideration of EC Nomination/Election
(1) Vice Chair
(2) Secretary/Treasurer
(3) At Large Representative to EC
(4) Tentative: possible Additional 2nd At Large Representative to EC

Nominations Process for each [open] position on EC




Nominations were solicited by Chair in August 27th email, two weeks prior to Sept. 10th election.
o Senators and their alternates can nominate eligible members of the Senate to the EC.
Self-nominations can be made by Senators (but not by alternates) prior to the Sept. 10th meeting.
Nominations and self-nominations were accepted by email prior to Sept. 10th meeting, through
submission to the Senate Chair or to Dinorah Martinez, Secretary, Faculty Senate Office.



Nominations and self-nominations are also solicited on “floor of the Senate” for each EC position to be
elected on Sept. 10th, following Senate consideration of the Resolution on Elections to the EC.



Any nomination or self-nomination requires a Second from a Senator, “on the floor of the Senate”,
whether submitted by email prior to Sept. 10th or during the meeting.



At a point when no additional nominations or self-nominations are heard, the Chair or Parliamentarian
will ask for Motion to Close Nominations.
o Motion to close nominations needs a Second, then move to unanimous consent if no objection.

ELECTION Process for each position



If only one nominee per position (uncontested election):
o Chair or Parliamentarian requests Motion to elect by acclimation.
If multiple nominations (contested election): election by Senators will occur by secret ballot

Voting Process for EC position with multiple nominees:


Senators voting in-person:
o Write name of candidate on paper ballot provided during meeting in MPR.
o Designated member of EC (or other volunteer) will collect paper ballots and bring to Chair.



Senators voting remotely:
o Vote by Zoom Private Chat, addressed to Senate Chair or to designated member of EC
(outgoing or continuing).
o Write name of preferred candidate in Private Chat. (Do NOT mistakenly “send to everyone”).
Voting by private chat is not anonymous, for Senators voting remotely.
o Zoom has provision for voting by electronic ballot, but names of nominees for EC positions
would not be known prior to 9/10 meeting.



For each contested EC position:
o Paper ballots will be counted by Chair, combined with votes submitted remotely, and winner will
be announced immediately.
o This dual process has not been previously undertaken, noting that EC election in September 2020
was completely remote.
o Each EC member elected at Sept. 10th meeting assumes position immediately.