audio_only

Tue, 8/11 2:53PM • 2:06:04

SUMMARY KEYWORDS

students, campus, question, faculty, meeting, chat, facility, duncan, blackboard, plan, candidates, good, put, laptops, working, areas, move, terms, service desk, zoom



00:00

I was I was really into like trying to grow a beard before I really could. And there are some pictures of me in high school that couldn't quite get it all to grow in your hair.



00:11

You can look in the participants list and see if her mic is or al unmuted. She's unmuted.



00:17

He looks on mute it.



00:19

So why don't you chat private with the or in the chat to make sure she's just said she can't be heard or seen. So, john, maybe you could go and chat privately with her and see if you can help her troubleshoot her, her tech.



00:37

Sometimes you just have to go out and come back in



00:40

very good advice.



00:42

But, but that that tends to be more with collaborate less with zoom, but sometimes at home,



00:48

don't just collaborate. The word



00:50

one o'clock Andy, um, I, I think we should just Just wait a couple of minutes because we're almost 100 people The reason I don't want to start with my chairs report is because it's gonna, it's gonna have, it's mostly just instructions about how the meeting is going to go. And I would end up just having to repeat it anyway. So it's okay, let's, let's give it two minutes. And then I think we'll just



01:18

okay.



01:21

I am putting the link to the agenda in the chat. So you can take a look at the agenda. We also are asking people to put their questions into the chat at the the appropriate agenda item. We have a shared question document, which I'm putting the link into the chat right now that shared question document is a Google document that you can all edit. And you'll see it's divided by section of the agenda and you can add your questions in there. And you could also chat privately with john Estes, Laurie Morris. And Dana Sinclair, who can help you with anything you need. And myself. I'll be working in the chat us. We're a chat first meeting. So if you have questions, put them in chat. Mike's going to talk about that when he kicks the meeting off. And also all you lovely administrators and college council chairs and vice presidents and directors of all sorts of things. Please use the chat to respond to any questions you see.



02:35

That would be great.



02:39

We're all the way up to 127 Andy, so I'm gonna give it just another



02:42

go. No, go go go.



02:44

We'll start off



02:52

into the chat. I'm putting the link to the restart plan. So you can open up the restart plan and it tab because the idea here is to help us all understand this restart plan. We have all these planners on hand to help you answer your questions. And there's the link to the, to the plan itself.



03:11

Welcome, Aubrey.



03:15

Okay, so I think I think we're pretty close to 140 participants. So we're going to go ahead and get started. I want to welcome everyone to this kind of unusual meeting to have a full faculty meeting in the middle of August. Thank you very much for coming. My name is Mike kavik. For those of you who don't know me, I'm the incoming faculty senate chair. And I'm going to have more of an introduction. I'll talk a little bit more about what's going to happen in the meeting, but we're going to start things off with a very special report from our college council chair Millie maka Gianni about the Presidential Search which is moving along. I just want to say very briefly, I want to thank Millie



04:00

Yes.



04:04

On the Presidential Search



04:08

sorry.



04:12

Wait, Michael, you're you're cutting out because not everybody's on mute. So if somebody, Andy, you might want to put Miss Morris on mute, while it's



04:30

the last portion of what you said was cutting out stuff.



04:34

Oh, all I was saying so can you hear me now? Is it okay? I just wanted to point out to everybody. I remember when we didn't have a chair of our college council and our search for a president was stalled and it looked like it could be stalled for a very, very long time. And having Milly come in and be so proactive and communicative. It's been fantastic and I I will confess, when Millie came in and gave us an estimate about we will be looking at this fall of being very close to hiring a president. I was I'm an optimistic person but I was a little bit skeptical as to whether or not that was possible and and you have absolutely proved me wrong and we're so grateful. So very grateful for your your very active efforts on the college's behalf. So I'll turn it over to you for an update with you know, for this very important information, and then we will return to the main purpose of the meeting.



05:35

Thank you very much, Michael, and I want to welcome you as the new faculty senate chair, I also want to thank Andy Madsen. You know, he was my first point of contact being the faculty senate chair when I first came in and really did a great job advocating on behalf of all of the faculty and all of the concerns. I did come into a somewhat uncertain situation. And I believe one of the reasons why my name was forwarded as they saw the situation and they needed somebody that would come in and get to know the campus very quickly get to know the players very quickly and kick off this presidential search in a fair and efficient manner. I hope I have done that. So far. It's been a tireless effort, not only on my part, but on the entire search committee. I don't think people really understood the amount of time and work that this process takes. And when I first wanted to shoot for a September appointment, I was told by quite a few folks that that might be a little unrealistic, and I might be, you know, aiming a little too high. But that's not the first time you know, that's been told to me. So I'm very pleased to report to you how fantastic this project has been how well the search committee has done in not only assessing the candidates but in our very insightful, thoughtful back and forth when deliberating about the candidates. Tough points, tough times at certain points. But overall, a very, very good group of people that has the campuses best interest at heart. I have to say this is one of the most passionate faculty that I've that I've ever met or ever known. And it's, it's been just amazing to see and I'm absolutely honored to serve as the college council chair. So given that, I'll give you the real update where we are. So we started with about 150 candidates in the candidate pool at the very beginning of this process after the search firm was done with its recruitment efforts. A few selection meetings later. And after really deliberating and reviewing all of the materials, we narrowed the search committee narrowed, narrowed it down to 12, that we would meet in person, and those are called mutual site interviews. Now, normally, those neutral site interviews would be done with the entire search committee staying at a hotel for a three day period, that you're stuck in a conference room, you know, for 75 minutes with each candidate. It's a very long two to three days. But given COVID we have had to do everything virtually. Luckily, we were not the first campus to complete or conduct their search virtually three other campuses had already finished off their search via zoom with everything being done remotely and they were very successful. So I wasn't that concerned when I heard that we have to do this all remotely. So we we had our neutral site interviews and I have to tell you, I heard stories Without their SUNY campuses that they had a tough time picking five candidates from that group of 12. I mean, they would get to two and they would be we don't want anybody else. In our case, it was exactly the opposite. The candidate pool was so strong, that it was tough. It was tough. Like all we only get five because we there was so many that we liked, and I was told that that's a good problem to have. A lot of candidates were really drawn to this campus because of the campuses.



09:36

And given the current climate, people are really passionate to come here and serve. So what what that resulted in is an exceptional group of candidates. So as tough as that decision was to narrow it down to five, after another very long search committee meeting, we got that done. And this week, as we speak, we are conducting what's called The campus representational interviews where each candidate spends an entire day with various constituency groups. Now the search committee is not involved. We don't we've already met the candidates. We only meet with each candidate at the end of the day for quick debrief, but certain members throughout the campus community were selected to interview and meet with each of these candidates. So one has done so far. By the end of Friday, we'll be done with all five candidates. Next week is our last big meeting where the finalists names will be forwarded to the well. I'm leaving out certain details about the meeting but there is a very big meeting. And then ultimately the college council narrows it down since the finalists names over to Albany and then they do their those finals candidates will do their interviews And presentations at the Albany level. And we are still very much on target for a September appointment. Everything is going according to schedule. These campus representational interviews, normally pre COVID would be done on campus. But even these are being done remotely via zoom. So all the constituency groups are meeting with the semi finalists throughout the day, virtually, but the first one last week when went over without a hitch. It was fantastic. We got great feedback. Now that I've said all of that, I do want to stress the importance of confidentiality. I know there's some of you that are on this call that are members of the search committee. They've been told time and time again, you know, we're constantly reinforcing the confidentiality of this. Since the Chancellor has deemed all searches representational. Not a single campus has breached confidentiality and I certainly don't want to be the first. So as much as you want to know, um, you know, I would just ask that everyone, please refrain from asking any search committee members about candidates and their names. I mean, overall, you can get a sense of are they strong or not good but no details, certainly not revealing the identity and try not to speak to the constituency groups, or the persons asked to join those constituency groups who now are privy to who those candidates are, because we do want to maintain the integrity of the search. We're in the homestretch in a couple of weeks. We pass it over to Albany and then we sit and wait for this for the board of trustees to appoint at their September board meeting which is targeted for mid September. So that is my full update. I don't think I left anything out. Again. I'm super excited. The first day of interviews with the first semi finalists candidate it went so far. Fantastic. So if that's a primer to what we're going to see this week, I'm certainly very, very excited. And I think we're going to have the same problem. The College Council will have the same problem of, you know, we have too many strong candidates, and it's going to be a tough decision decision narrowly. So thank you for for giving me the opportunity to update all of you. Just final words. Sorry, final words. I know. I can just imagine I'm not going to pretend to understand what it is to be in your position. You guys were somewhat anxious before the pandemic happened. And now I'm pretty sure the anxiety level is pretty high with the uncertainty of what's coming not only with the reopening, but with, you know, who's going to be our our next president. I just want to assure you, you're all in very, very good hands. I will ensure that this process and this transition is very smooth. I have a good relationship with SUNY system. So there will certainly be Very smooth transition. So to the extent that everyone, anyone is still worried, please not not to worry.



14:07

Thank you. Thank you very much, Billy, for that update. And again, many thanks for your efforts on our behalf. We're going to try very hard during this meeting to keep things moving along. In terms of questions. I know that there's going to be a tremendous amount of interest about this topic. But we are going to limit it to two questions now about Millie's presentation. After the meeting is over, we will stay around Millie, I know you probably can't stay that long. But, you know, people can ask further questions about the Presidential Search. Again, being mindful of confidentiality. We can carry that discussion forward after we finish the main purpose of the meeting. But we will take two questions now, in addition to the one that I'm about to ask. Similarly, I think it's really important just to address for the faculty, what's going to happen on September 1, after President butts He moves on, is there going to be an officer in charge? And what's the plan, you know, for that continuity.



15:07

So there,



15:09

I have promised this entire campus community that there will be continuity. Paul Patton, who is the Chancellor's representative has attended a couple of college council meetings where he also assured that there would be continuity. And while I cannot discuss any of the details, I can assure you that there is a plan underway, that there is going to be an officer in charge coming in the timeline of when that will be announced that that's going to be very soon. I can't give you an exact date. It'll certainly be prior to Dr. Buses departure and with sufficient time to allow for the transition to be smooth. So there is definitely a plan there is definitely an individual that that is coming in to ensure that this transition is smooth.



15:59

Thank you Very much. Okay, so we have our first question. And again, we're just going to keep this to two questions. So please, if you have a question for Emily, please put it in the chat. But our first question is, are we able to prioritize the list of candidates that goes to Sunni? Good question.



16:20

So, the college council has the, the the obligation to narrow it to three and we are directed, it's actually right in the guidelines that we are to forward three on ranked finalists over to Albany. So that is a good question, but it is in the it is in the guidelines, and they are to be unranked. I'm sorry. Let me add to that. It also says in the guidelines, we do have the opportunity to submit a one page brief summary to Albany with the relative strengths and weaknesses of each of those finalists. So the college council will be doing that, and I'm pretty sure from the summary like that it would be clear.



17:06

Thank you. That's, that's very helpful. Okay. Our second and final question before we move on is when do you anticipate the new president starting?



17:15

so far? Um,



17:19

why, while while there are a lot of things that are there to be taken into consideration to answer that question, and I'm not the sole person responsible for deciding that. But so far, all of our semi finalists at the very least are able to start as soon as we're good and ready. So those candidates that are currently at campuses, they would need to give some period of notice. However, given the timeline and what given the timeline of things, they're all able to start pretty much when we're ready to have them come on. So the officer in charge, that's that that would be coming in. It's for a very short stint on just a few months. I mean, the max it would be is January 2021. But



18:18

I don't end



18:21

I'm just going to meet somebody new Miss Martinez. Um, but the longest I anticipate it would be would be January 2021. And that's like the outside timeframe. So I do. I do surmise, and without saying too much. I do believe it would be sometime mid semester, it wouldn't be January 2021.



18:44

That that's really remarkable. Thank you for the update. I also should thank the the search committee and everyone involved. I mean, I know many people were involved in this very complicated process and it seems like everyone has done an absolutely fantastic job. So we're going to move on with the rest of the meeting. But certainly very encouraging. And thank you once again.



19:03

Thank you. Thank you all for having me.



19:06

Okay, we're going to move on with the agenda for what is really the main purpose of the meeting. And we're going to start with my introduction, I'm going to try to keep my introduction very brief. I really just want to lay out what the purpose of the meeting is. And it's very, very simple. First of all, I want to commend you all, and thank you all for coming to a meeting in the middle of the summer. A turnout like this in the middle of August is absolutely remarkable. I, you know, you should all be on vacation. I hope some of you maybe are doing this by the side of a lake or something, but you're the dedication being shown today is great. And so we want to honor that by having a very singular focus here, which is to get you as much information as much good information to help you be prepared for the fall as we can, as I said in my email when COVID Hit, it was very unexpected for all of us, we all had to rush and sort of change on a dime what we were doing and how we were teaching. You did an amazing job at that. But I felt it was very important to have this meeting, because we do have, you know, the luxury of a little bit of time to prepare. And I wanted once the restart plan was published and was in place, I wanted to get give you an opportunity to get that information and ask questions about that plan, as soon as you can, to give you as much lead time so that when you go into the classroom and the fall, virtually, in most cases, that you're going to feel prepared and supported. We have a plan in place for this meeting. Because we know there are many questions and many things to talk about. We want to try to keep things moving and keep things focused. And all I really want to do in this introduction is go over how that's going to work. We're going to ask you to keep your questions to think 30 seconds or less. If you go over a little bit, that's okay. But but really a minute at the most. So try to keep it to 30 seconds, we're going to ask we have, and again, in terms of great dedication, we have, we've had so many administrators join us today who have lots of good information to share with you very grateful for that as well. And we're going to ask any faculty or administrators who are answering questions to try to keep your answers to two minutes or less. And again, this is not if we are urging you to be quick or to move along or we have to ask you to stop. It's not to be rude. It's only because we want to get as many questions in as we possibly can. Also, I think this is true for any meeting, but but especially for this meeting, we will have a question queue. I'm going to talk about how that's going to work in just one second. But we're going to try very hard to have different voices, you know, so please allow other people who have not asked questions to get an opportunity to get in This very vital information. In terms of asking your questions, we have a couple venues for you. The main venue is obviously going to be the chat for this meeting. I'm Andy Madsen, our outgoing chair has been kind enough to, you know, man, that chat. So he's going to be organizing the queue. As we go through those questions. He has also put the link to a Google Doc that has all the questions in it. So you can either put your questions in the chat or you can put them in the Google doc and we will make sure that they get addressed what I would ask that would be extremely helpful for Andy because I used to organize the queue. If you could just include with your question, one of two phrases either on mic if you want to be the one to ask the question. Um, or in chat if you only want your your question answered in chat is great. If we can have a lot of questions that go into the chat. are answered in the chat, because then that doesn't take up the time for for on mic speaking. And we're going to try to process through as many of these questions as we can. Um, are there any questions? I guess, I guess you can go ahead and put in the chat if you have any questions about the procedure. And and while



23:21

while you think about that, and before we move on to our first topic, I don't want to take up a lot of time, but I do want to give a tremendous acknowledgement and tremendous thanks on my part, to the executive committee of the Faculty Senate, and especially to Andy. He is, as you all know, an incredibly hard act to follow. But I want you to know, and I want to recognize publicly what he has done for me as Incoming Chair. He has been so supportive, he has absolutely set me up to succeed. He's been working with me all summer, and as you can see, he's continuing to help now he's given me a All the support and all the information that anyone could ask for. So thank you, Andy. And I continue to thank you even in this meeting, as you're helping us now. So with all that said, that's my introduction to the meeting. And to continue with that spirit. We want to just keep on going so that we get through as many questions as we can't. So we're going to go to our first topic. The Andy, do you think you can share the agenda just so everyone can see it? I know you guys have copies of the agenda that you can click on, but we'll try to put that on the screen.



24:36

And our first topic



24:40

is going to be teaching in the fall.



24:46

So



24:49

the way this is going to work when we go to a new topic, if we don't have a lot of questions, I will ask a kind of setup question to get the discussion



24:56

going. But the two questions ready Mike?



24:58

Yes. So it We're going to move right into those questions. I'm just going to read the first one for you. And those two questions are both in the, the shared document, right? Yes. Okay, so we're going to start with the first question. Um, and again, we have many administrators who are here, and so we'll try to throw it to one of them. If there is a one off instance. So again, our topic is remote teaching and teaching in the fall. There's a one off instance where we need to meet with a student on campus. What should we do since our offices are not built for social distancing? randomly walk around and find a classroom? What's the best advice there? So maybe someone Academic Affairs, Duncan, would you like to handle that question?



25:45

So I think the way we constructed the plan was to sort of not have that happen if there is an absolute Reason for such to happen I would suggest that faculty in those instances make contact with their Dean's their respective Dean's and or the Office of Academic Affairs. Related to this, I've heard that there are some faculty who perhaps might like to visit the campus. And I've been having that those kinds of discussions with the deans to see if there are places that we can look locate as classrooms that we can designate for such a purpose, particularly as we consider what are the cleaning and disinfecting requirements that also are associated with that kind of thing. But for the present time, I would suggest that all office our activity be free Unless there's some strongly compelling reason why you would need to meet face to face with the student on the campus.



27:13

Okay, thank you very much for that answer our next question. Last semester students with births are households who didn't have computers could drop into a computer lab on campus. Is this still going to be possible?



27:29

I guess I'll try to respond to that question. Also, what we have said in the plan is that our facility is largely closed. We haven't identified any other contingency that would require students to come and make use of the computer lab facility. But our our I would just say that our plan is not etched in stone in such a way that should need arise, we couldn't figure out what we could do to provide some limited access if that was absolutely necessary.



28:15

Okay, thank you.



28:18

So, we have another question, which is literally coming in in real time, and I'll go ahead and read it for you. It says, Where can we advise students to go if their power and internet is out, for instance, what happened last week with the storm? So what advice can we give to students in that situation?



28:39

So, I guess I will try to field that question as well. This one's a little bit difficult, because I think the way that we've set up those communications involves the Service Desk and I guess if you can't really get To the internet, so that you could communicate with the, the service this, um, I'm not apt. I'm not 100% sure about what we would do in this particular case. But I think that we did create sort of soft phone solutions for students and others who may want to call various offices. So if such happened, and they called for instance, academic affairs, we have one of our office staff answering such phone calls. So I would, I would say that they would either call academic affairs or their department offices.



29:52

So I think it's probably a good idea to put that kind of information on the syllabus and go over it. On the first day, so the student knows, if if you lose power, these are the steps that you should follow. And so are you saying that we should put, you know, call academic affairs as the kind of go to option or?



30:15

Well, I think in depending upon how widespread the circumstances, I think the department office might be the better place to address the call. All of the department secretaries and the dean secretaries have soft phone solutions. So if you at least have a cell phone connection, and you're able to get to the department phone number, either for the Dean's assistant or the department secretary for their major. That's the Place I think I would recommend that the initial communication be sent to.



31:07

So we have a follow up question, which is if our power were to go out, do we need prior approval to go to campus and I think what the person is thinking is My power's out, my internet is out, but the campus powers functional, can I go into my office and teach my class without prior approval?



31:27

So we've been trying to coordinate with facilities for visits of that type to the campus.



31:38

I, I would say that we would not



31:43

inhibit or prohibit that kind of thing. But we would want to know, with some notice, if possible, that that such was going to happen again. The reason for this is what we would prefer to do, as opposed to having them teach out of their offices is designate spaces such as classroom spaces where they would perhaps teach out of the classroom space where we could sort of limit what was the need to have facilities running, you know, all around the campus because there were multiple faculty members coming to campus in multiple campus spaces.



32:40

Okay, and so so we had a little bit of discussion about remote instruction. The other topic here is facility dependent instruction and we have some questions appearing for that. So I have a question is just as classroom spaces, how is the use of these being designated? Can you just talk a little bit about for the spaces that are going to be used The circumstances under which they're used, and how that's organized.



33:06

So facility dependent courses and let me just thank all of you and the chairs as well as the deans who have coordinated the effort to compile our list of courses and the modality for the the modalities for their delivery. We have something short of 50 facility dependent courses. And that list actually, I think as recently as about a week or so ago, took a couple of additional courses off the list. But with respect to the question, the list largely falls within the school in exclusively I should say, falls within the School of Arts and Sciences. And as many of you know, in the areas that we've identified is sort of the high contact, the high touch areas that are where facility is required in order to get to the student learning outcomes. Working with all of you, we've, we've when we've actually narrowed down substantially, even in terms of the facility dependent courses, smaller components of the course, instruction itself, that will be facility dependent. But those areas are largely the art studio. The Natural Science building where the laboratories are and a couple of our media centers Here on the campus, the media Innovation Center and



35:05

you know, oh, W Webb radio.



35:10

Those are essentially the spaces and locations where facility dependent courses will be handled. And they're going to be handled with staggered scheduling that's substantially reduces the student density.



35:30

And with pp vailable to,



35:35

you know, those departments in faculty that are doing those courses, through a process that facilities has sort of established to have those materials available to the faculty. Sorry, that was kind of a longer answer than I had anticipated.



35:54

That was fine. That was that was very good. Thank you, Duncan.



35:57

Well, a couple more questions in this Before we move on, and also I want to point out to everyone, we are having lots of questions asked and answered in the chat, please make sure you refer to that. There's really some good information there. The next question is, are the withdrawal or incomplete deadlines different for the new academic year?



36:21

We have not attempted to do anything with that, you know, some of what we did during the spring. We did it facing what was an emergency response for remote instruction with the planning that we've had since then, and given some of what has been the reflection out of things like the lessons learned, you know, seminars, workshops that have taken place for that have taken place. We've made no Immediate decision about that, other than to think that we can go into our current semester ready with what is sort of a standard, a more standard approach to the semester, outside of some of the particular things that we have noted in the campuses plan. So things like no face to face instruction whatsoever after Thanksgiving, right. But aside from those kinds of things, we've identified, our academic calendar will largely remain the same unless conditions warrant otherwise. And that we will keep in place What are normal, more standard academic policies and procedures.



37:59

Okay, One This is the final question before we move on to health and safety because it is the question of questions, which I think has been that was the most common question asked, we have it in a different section, but let's just get it out of the way now. When will we know about zoom licenses?



38:19

So in a report that I sent out to all of you, I think it was Few days ago. I indicated that we've made a request for funding for zoom licenses, in our cares Act requests out of Academic Affairs. That doesn't exactly answer the question, but what I can tell you is where work I been working with our CIO, I think we're close to a solution on this. We have actually a quote From a zoom representative that's actually part of the Sunni wide process concerning zoom. And I, it is my hope that within a few days, I will be able to say something more definitive in that regard. But that's the best answer I can give right at the moment.



39:28

Thank you, Duncan. Okay, we're gonna move on. And we're gonna move on to the topic of health and safety. So as we noted in the previous discussion, there are going to be some facilities on campus that are going to be used, and we want to know about now is what are the sanitation procedures going to be like? And what are the safety measures that are going to be put in place? We're going to go through some questions. Now. We're going to have a You know, just some short discussion from the you up. I hope I know that there were some issues with Martha getting in I don't know if Martha's back in the meeting and can be heard, but we'll hear from her in just a moment hopefully.



40:13

Yes, one two. Can you hear me?



40:15

We got you, Martha. So you're gonna you're gonna be out very soon. Okay, so our first question in this section, it says hand washing, excepted restrooms, are there any sinks being set up? So extra? What are what are the extra facilities that are going to be made available for sanitation? If any



40:40

question for



40:45

Bill chemins. If you'd like to answer please feel free.



40:49

I'm sorry. What was the question again?



40:52

I think it's this is handwashing accepted restrooms. Are there any sinks being set up or I think more broadly Are there going to be extra sanitation facilities around the campus that people should be aware of places to wash your hands or, you know, be you know, maintain sanitation.



41:11

There's been no extra bathrooms assigned to a build.



41:16

We totally adequate to the population on campus is not expected to be very large. Except for facilities dependent courses. We don't expect many students on campus.



41:31

We expect



41:34

the October to work from home to be extended. So we've done nothing about adding



41:43

faucets or sinks or bathrooms.



41:47

Okay, so this may be leads into the next question, which is lab cleaning between sessions. How much time is the college determined to be sufficient? Will the custodial staff assist laboratory staff in the natural Science Building.



42:02

Yes, there's the Provost has established the schedule. I'm not sure it's the final schedule yet. But that's been provided to us. In addition, there are monitors in, in the science building, who will let us know what cleaning needs to be done. We have we cannot clean the entire campus with the staff that we have, to the standards that you will require I would require, but with a limited use of space, we are going to be able to use our own staff to clean.



42:35

Okay, I'm going to go ahead and add a question of my own. It seems like with COVID, one of the real primary concerns is transmission through the air if there have been any kind of adaptations related to ventilation or anything done on on that front terms of maybe filters or anything like that, because it seems like that is really a crucial issue with this particular virus.



42:59

Can we get Nicola, he'll respond if I see something wrong, but it's my understanding. First that we have multiple kinds of H vac on campus, we are required to go to the lowest bidder. So we've got six different manufacturers on campus. And each of those systems can handle only so much in a way of filters. My understanding that we have ensured that we have, we have the maximum filter that the particular system will handle.



43:33

Most of us they may agree with that



43:36

pretty close bill, but most of our systems are have a pre filter that's a Merv eight and most of our other and then they go to a Merv 13. Some of the oldest systems are a little bit more questionable, but you just can't automatically just say I'm going to put a Merv



43:53

or



43:54

Merv 1516 wherever else and just automatically change the systems themselves. Can I handle that? So we are monitoring that in certain areas like in the health unit area that also has UV lighting. Some of the units, the new units that are in the library also have UV lighting. So we're maintaining that, make sure that goes, but we're maintaining our filters and checking them as much as we can.



44:24

Okay, thank you very much for that answer. Maybe we can move on to the second topic in this heading, which is screening, testing and tracing. So we don't have any specific questions, but I've seen some really great discussion from Mike Kinane in the chat window. If someone else wants to handle this, that's fine. Um, what What plans do we have in place? I know that we have a limited population on campus. But what if we have a report that a student test positive? What are we doing for screening I know there's the online sim symptom checker Can we have a little bit of discussion about testing on tracing and screening.



45:05

When I started off and Mike can jump in if you can enter what I had to say, but you know that we're screening at the front gate right now. We are looking at a device, thermal imaging device that will be placed at the front gate, which will be able to take temperatures remotely even from automobiles, and even in the winter.



45:29

We are



45:30

about to announce COVID testing on campus that in next couple of days that will be announced on campus that will be free of charge and that there'll be no cash payment up front but your charger insurance will be applicable to students as well.



45:57

tracing we've been assured by a Department of Health that there were equipped to handle all the traceroute so if someone shows up with COVID or with symptoms w turned around and sent their own doctor they'll be sent to the hospital to contacts the Department of Health that we chose to quarantine.



46:25

And if anybody becomes ill on campus



46:29

having arrived in the morning fine feeling well but during the day doesn't feel well. They will contact you or somebody will contact on their behalf University Police. Police will respond if necessary. They'll call student health for assessment or triage and if they need transportation student help arrange them.



46:53

Mike if I can if I can just jump in real quick over a couple of different little points. The testing bill mentioned is kind of a value added at this point, it's nothing we're requiring. Because the lab will do it for free for students and faculty would need to get a prescription. It's something we can offer for people who feel they might need it. We've asked the student health, the physicians and nurses and Student Health to look at the schedule that Duncan mentioned earlier about remote instruction, and people who will be sorry about facilities dependent instruction. Those numbers of classes being held that way, are a little bit higher than we thought they were going to be when we originally put the plan together. So what we've asked them to do is to look at that schedule and say, if we wanted to do baseline testing, and at some other kind of regular regularly scheduled testing of those constituents, how might that look? I don't know that we're going to get there on them. Because everybody's commuting back and forth to the community. They're not constrained on the campus. So they're constantly going back to behaviors. We don't necessarily have the ability to monitor. But that's the other piece of the testing puzzle that we're kind of looking at. on the contract tracing side, as Bill said, the county has said that they can handle it. We don't particularly trust that. So there are five members of the student health team who have gone through the training and our expectation is we will likely offer our services for cases that come up related to our folks so that we can assist them and get it moving a little more quickly than it might if the county was doing it on its own.



48:41

Just a quick follow up because there's a couple other questions here. I haven't gotten to we're going to try to get through these quickly because I want to give Martha her time. How often are we going to get updates on the status of coronavirus infections daily weekly bi weekly.



48:59

I think that kind of stuff. On how it happens. Right now we're going to try and do weekly updates using existing vehicles the student need letter and the current for for employees.



49:12

So you would find it there.



49:15

The challenge in that is if students are teaching our learning through distance and remote instruction and are COVID-19 positive, we might not necessarily even know it. So you know, you would only really be able to direct it I think, and comments and emails to me with suggestions are welcome. That people coming to campus are the ones you would most likely find out about. And employees I think you would find that out if people weren't because we saw that happen in the spring when some people got challenged by it. So we are going to have a weekly kind of set place for news about ongoing the right word status of the campus in relation to the Coronavirus. The information in that will probably change week to week based on what's going on.



50:09

Okay, sorry, I know I only have one more question. But there's a couple people in the chat that are asking, Can you please clarify the need for a prescription for faculty and staff to be tested? So there's a couple people want clarification on that issue.



50:21

You know, what I will make, what I'll do is I'm going to double check that. And I'll send a message to you and Andy and you can you can disseminate it if you'd like. Student Health can do prescriptions for the students. I'm not sure. And frankly, I'm not sure whether as I sit here, and when I last talked to them, they talked about employees needing a prescription for the test. I will double check that.



50:44

Okay, thank you. Final question before we hear from the up, um, in addition to Governor Cuomo putting New York on pause again, what will determine the decision to eliminate on campus instruction and or use of on campus Facilities by the students. So what would have to happen for us to shut down any on campus activity? I think that's the question.



51:13

That's also a question that we're kind of readdressing. Now, because the number of remote classes was a little more than we thought. In my mind, I think we're gonna parallel. Whatever the governor's guidance is, that's what I would propose. It seems he's vacillated between five and 9%. I've seen reported in different industries. I think it's a fair question to ask, I think we have a little time to come to it. When we started this, we thought there might be, you know, six to 7% of our courses as facilities dependent. It's getting a little above that now when you're up to 50 or so. So I think we need to need to probably re address that again. My original thoughts was 5%. But when we were talking about having only, you know, 100 people on campus a week 5% turned out to be one person. Two people, you know, you could do the math, it's really low. I think it's, as I said, I think it's fair to ask I think we have to do a little more digging on it, but I would imagine that soon is going to tell us to have it mirror, whatever the state guidance says.



52:25

Okay, thank you.



52:27

So,



52:29

okay, we got one coming in, in real time. Last one, I promise and then Martha, you're up. Can UV disinfection handwash be provided provided for the science labs?



52:42

In what people voted,



52:43

our UV disinfection, and I guess extra hand washing. So I think the point here is, can something be put okay UV can can UV disinfection be provided in the science labs is the question,



52:57

Tim, can you answer that



53:03

Well right now, you V is still going back and forth of whether or not that is really going to do the disinfectants that you have now the hand sanitizers, they're saying as long as it's over 60% we're do what you need to be done. As far as disinfecting your hands, wash your hands and then use a disinfectant after that. Hand Sanitizer, you should be fine. As far as adding UV to it, as at this point, No, we haven't looked at that.



53:32

Okay, we're going to now move on. Martha, you are up to tell us a little bit about you up concerns related to health and safety.



53:40

Okay, can folks hear me?



53:43

Can everybody hear me? Yes.



53:46

Yay. I'm sorry. You can't see my wonderful face in motion. You just have to look at this photo. Up has been working on faculty's behalf on behalf of our professionals. Members, and we've been working together with our csca sisters and brothers and others. And we've met several times with Bill kemmons. We initially in June had asked for a joint labor management Task Force on the health and safety concerns that we have. And Bill's reply was rather than have ongoing meetings as a joint task force, we should just come to him and we would have meetings as needed. We've had a couple of those meetings. We have developed a lengthy list of concerns, which are much more detailed than what you've heard so far in today's conversation, and we've raised these concerns with Bill and we are not First I want to say it's been really good to be able to work together and try and make this campus as safe as we can. We are, I think, in a number of ways very far from agreement about how to do that. And as always, as you can well imagine, the concern is doing stuff that really maximizes people's health and safety costs a lot of money. So, how much PGP is there? Where do people go to get it? What about contact? What about testing at the gate, this self report mechanism that we're using, it's a mechanism, but you up statewide feels strongly that we should be having ongoing testing at every campus. Um, so I just want to do a very quick framework in an Occupational Safety In health, we talk about a hierarchy of hazard controls the top of the hierarchy, the best thing you can do is eliminate the problem. Right? And so if we're not coming on campus, problem solved, and for most faculty for most of the time, that's going to be the case, but for a lot of our members both up ncsea. Obviously, that's not the case. So how do we control the amount of infection that walks on cat or drives on campus? This red light green light mechanism is one way but you up statewide feels as though we really need to be doing testing. And that, of course, is a money question. It's expensive to do testing and just hearing this thing about what you can do testing and then you have to build your insurance OMG Don't get me started. So another issue that may not affect Many people on this call, but is the question of the campus shuttle buses? And how do the drivers stay safe? How do the people writing the shuttle buses stay safe? My understanding is Oh, and so then this takes us down from the elimination takes us to what's called administrative controls. That is you make rules. And you have to people have to follow those rules. So my understanding is there are people in the general public sometimes getting on our shuttle buses. How can we avoid that happening is thing one, how can we make sure that people getting on the buses are masked. And the instruction that we have so far is that drivers may not enforce they may suggest but not enforced? We think that's a problem. We think the problem about masking and other safety measures on Campus needs a lot more really determined leadership. It's not a suggestion to wear a mask. If you're on campus and you're working around other campus members. That's not a suggestion. That has to be an order. You know, it's the summer you go to a restaurant, no shirt, no shoes, no service, no mask, no come on campus, and let's have masks at the front gate. If somebody's coming on campus and hasn't brought their mask with them. That's simple. That's the kind of thing we really need to be doing. I think much more forcefully.



58:40

p p. e. how we get the PP to our employees who are coming on campus is an issue, social distancing, Plexiglas barriers, we've spoken about h fac. Tim, thank you for your remarks on a track. I think a number of us feel that the eight Facts situation has never been ideal in a lot of locations on our campus. I can speak for the science building where it's either 40 degrees or 90 degrees. But that's a whole other conversation. atretic is a serious question. elevators, how many people can get on an elevator at the same time? Cleaning? How many cleaners Do we have with you? We're short handed on cleaners we have been for years and years. And yet we're going to be demanding a good deal more cleaning from them to keep especially our face to face work environments safe. Then we get into and here's where Bill chemins is going to roll his eyes because he loves when I talk about stuff like air dryers and toilet kiloohm it's just his apps right bill your favorite topics. There are a series that's called a choke point a restroom is an act, you know is really a breeding ground. So What do you do if it's a large restroom? I was just on the New York Thruway yesterday went into a public restroom. Every other sink had been turned off and there was a little sign saying social distance. So space out the stall space out the sinks, turn off the air dryers, which are gigantic spreaders provide non touch paper towels for everybody using a restroom. that's a that's a start. There are other issues we could talk about. One other administrative control we feel is a sign in sheet in the restrooms were the cleaner signs that they cleaned on Monday at 3pm. And so we can see how frequently the cleanings been going on. Another issue for us as water fountains, they shouldn't be They need to be disabled or kept, or whatever we can provide so that nobody's actually using these. Steve Sienna, thank you for that message delighted to see that PPA is available at the gatehouse on request. That's wonderful. And finally, the issue that bill already started to address about how to handle a situation where an employee fall sick while at work, we consulted with an Occupational Safety and Health expert. And one thing that he had to say to us was, it would be great to have an isolation space for such a person. Right so that that person is not contaminating anybody else. How do we accomplish that? The negative pressure room is the gold standard, so that no air goes out from that room into the general public. That's expensive. Do we do that? How else do we handle it? Again, these things are under discussion. So I'll wrap by saying anybody who has concerns, please email me and other you, you peers.



1:02:18

And let us know what your concerns are sorry about that. Stupid phone ringing. Why it's always spam. Do contact



1:02:29

us we have an ongoing up csca joint health and safety Task Force, and we would welcome anybody's participation. So be in touch and just let us know what you need. Okay, that's it. I'm out.



1:02:49

Thank you very much, Martha. That was very informative and helpful. I just want to point out maybe to my Kinane, I think there was a follow up question about the prescription. We do have to move on But please pay close attention to the chat and try to answer in there if possible. We're going to move on to our next topic, which is financial implications and budgets. As of right now, we only have one question but but an absolutely crucial one which all addressed to Dunkin, which is Will there be furloughs for adjunct faculty?



1:03:26

So I think if you have looked at the campus restart plan, we have a section in the plan that addresses sort of the financial aspects of COVID-19 impact on us. And we've identified that there are some things that we'll attempt to do as a means of containing cost in some areas. So the The answer that I would give to that question is the one that has historically prevailed. And that is that whenever we have been faced with the possibility of consolidating sections or canceling sections, unfortunately, adjuncts sections are typically first on the chopping block in that, you know, in those cases, that does mean that we will just arbitrarily add junk covered sections, cross sections, but we will continue to do that and in a thoughtful and very deliberate you know, manner, so I'm not sure that I can say much more than that, I know that we you know, I've talked to the Dean's about this. And I know the Dean's working with their chairs have already identified some sections that have essentially been canceled as I understand it. So I would suggest that if there are adjuncts that have questions about that they may want to contact their chairs and perhaps the Dean of their respective schools.



1:05:41

Thank you, Duncan. I'm so we, we have a couple of different things that are under this heading that I'm going to go ahead and ask about. Um, well, while we have you here, Duncan, let me just ask this. One thing I'm curious about is on the one hand, um, you know, we may have Have a decrease in enrollment. And maybe we can ask Frank to say a little bit about what what the enrollment numbers look like. And I do know that you sent a very informative email. But one thing that occurs to me is we're going to have a drop in enrollment, which means less revenue. At the same time. We're doing all these other very important initiatives for sanitation and for, you know, related to the virus that are going to cost money. And and, you know, and of course, New York state budget is not in good shape. So how are we going to weather that storm as a pretty tough question?



1:06:34

Yeah, I and I think as your you've sort of framed it, it's multifaceted, right? You have to come up with some cost reduction strategies. You have to look at, for instance, how kirs monies may be used to help address some of what are the needs. You have to plan both For the immediate short term, with some efforts looking towards the mid year, for instance, perhaps in the spring, we're going to see some bounce back in our, you know, revenue due to enrollments, right? So you, you've got to do sort of have all of those things coming together. So I'm looking in Academic Affairs at other than personnel services cuts, right. So if faculty, for instance, are not going to be traveling, maybe there's an opportunity in our faculty professional development, budget areas, to reduce some of the budget that we would normally see in those areas. So, again, I think it's a multi pronged approach, but it does have to include some reduction in our spending some help from our friends. We'll call that the cares act



1:08:07

and some other



1:08:10

deferred expense strategies. So that that's sort of where we are with respect to that mic.



1:08:20

Thank you, Duncan. Okay, before we move on to the next topic on the agenda, I know that Martha wanted to to say make one more comment. So Martha, go ahead. Thanks. Can I be heard?



1:08:33

Yes. Okay, great. Wonderful.



1:08:36

I wanted to point to



1:08:39

the line on our agenda, that's number eight. And just say preparedness in the event of re emergence. That is the wrong way to look at this. We haven't stopped emerging. It's not like this has died down and now we're waiting for it to crop up again. And if we don't do that, Right Thing, and if we don't do it really, really powerfully right now, would have been nice if we done it six months ago. This thing is going to be around and with us for a very long time to come. I sent around an article from the times by Michael osterholm and Neel Kashkari. And it actually appears in today's dead tree version of the times. It's called here's how to crush the virus until vaccines arrive. They call for shutting everything down for six to eight weeks and really doing it right this time. Okay, over and out. Thanks.



1:09:37

Thank you, Martha.



1:09:43

Thank you. We're gonna move on to Mike



1:09:45

Mike. Can I and forgive me for being a little bit out of order? But it occurred but it occurred to me that as you know, the question about adjuncts was put forward. Part of our cost containment strategy has been to postpone replacement of certain faculty hiring. So there is some sharing here. I think that our adjunct faculty should be aware of that the cost containment strategy doesn't solely sort of rest upon them.



1:10:25

Yeah, I think that's an important point. And I mean, look, I think the the watchword for this whole situation should be that we're all in this together, and so has to be shared sacrifice. And I think we've all pulled together and, I mean, I think that's, that's a very appropriate way to think about it. Um, okay, we're going to move on to our next section, for which we have many, many questions. So we'll try to move through these as quickly as we can, which is support and development activities. Um, so I have some questions which have been sent to me And there are many questions in the chat but I want to start with something else. I'm Antonio Gregorio is going to tell us a little bit about the library. Antonio, are you here? Are you available?



1:11:15

Yeah, I'm here, I'm here.



1:11:17

Okay. So I know that you wanted to share with us the situation with the library and I think this is a great space to do that.



1:11:25

Well, I feel like I wanted to, but I should tell you um, as of now, the library will remain closed in the fall. We did we do the library's homepage with great effort by the librarians, Dana and Krista and you know, everyone did a wonderful job if you want to look it over. We are offering library instruction classes virtually. I will let you know that all the librarians are able to meet with you Students on a virtual basis they can schedule one on one appointments with them. Something else that we recently started within the last few weeks. Would you still working the kinks out? Is that when, you know we have virtual reference, we've had that for a few months. But something that is new is that if students are having an issue with



1:12:27

a question that they are, you know, question or research,



1:12:32

the librarians can screen share with them and do step by step to assist. We also joined a co op with other Sunni's and with other schools throughout the United States, where the students will have 24 seven access to a reference librarian and the reference librarian do have access to our databases so they will be able To assist Old Westbury students with their questions. So those are just a few things. If anybody has any other questions, they can always send me an email.



1:13:13

That's really very helpful. Thank you very much.



1:13:16

You're welcome.



1:13:17

Okay, well, as I said, we have more questions in this section than any other. So what we're going to try very hard to move through these as quickly as we can. First question, will there be assistance for adjunct adjunct professors who may need to upgrade their computers? Because their current technology does not have the hardware software capabilities to teach synchronously? Are there loaner laptops available for add ons? Maybe Duncan, so



1:13:45

and I think if Evans on the call with us, he can sort of fill in any gaps that my answer they may leave what I would say about this is We included a request for computer materials in our cares act request. We'll have to certainly that how we sort of disperse those when we do receive that added inventory. The service desk, I know is available and has sort of made an allowance for pushing drivers and software to laptops remotely. So if the need does include access to a particular software that's part of our list of available



1:14:48

application software,



1:14:52

they should be able to do that for adjunct faculty if that's the nature of the need. All I can say at the present time is if we know for sure that we don't have enough in the way of inventory to give every single adjunct, a laptop. I wish I could say that we did. But there will certainly be opportunity to make a request of that sort. And those requests, as I understand it are all going to be processed through the Service Desk. That's the I think most effective way both to log the request and track how we resolve the matter as it arises.



1:15:45

Okay, thank you. I don't know if Evan is here, but if you want to respond, you can feel free to



1:15:52

not much to add on this specific topic is exactly as Duncan described it.



1:15:58

I beach looks nice, too. Though



1:16:02

and maybe you can also help with the next question. I'll go ahead and read it. Will students particularly incoming freshmen be taught the basics of Blackboard before they are expected to join their professors online using the blackboard platform? I mean, that could be Dunkin or the library a lot of people could speak to that forever. Feel free.



1:16:22

I'll think the first time at first but concluding the common from the previous question. Whatever inventory we have of laptops right now they're all earmark for student use. If that need is fulfilled, then we'll make devices available for faculty. And then for adjuncts. So the priority is students full time faculty, and then adjunct assuming that we have availability for Blackboard destruction, all students are available to obtain to participate in the blackboard training courses which are are scheduled for the semester before the beginning of the semester during the first two weeks. So we don't differentiate between first years or second years or third years. The typical course for students on how to utilize Blackboard is available to all.



1:17:20

Okay, thank you. Okay, we can move on to the next question unless someone has something they want to add. Okay, so need more information about getting help from it? Is there an emergency procedure for when we're trying to get online or are in the middle of a class?



1:17:37

If it is,



1:17:39

I'll take that one. There are no emergency procedures. What we have established is a chat capability with a service desk, that if you're in the middle class, you can have a conversation if it's a technical issue, and we're trying to expand that to a blackboard issue if it's a specific for Blackboard We have availability remember our all our hours of operation are from 830 to five. So during those in assuming that there are there various staff available to answer your question, there is a chat capability available from the service desk



1:18:20

to faculty and students.



1:18:23

And I think that addresses the next question, but maybe if you want to add something, that's fine. The next question was, will it be possible to have a person on campus visit for laptop issues following prescribed COVID pre screening? I think you kind of answered that. If you haven't seen it. Feel free.



1:18:40

Oh, okay.



1:18:43

Um, okay. This was another place where the next question is, is about zoom. For Blackboard, I think Duncan answered this. But maybe we could just ask him a slightly different way, which is, is Blackboard capable of incorporating zoom and has collaborate but can zoom be built into Blackboard? We've gotten that question a number of times, because I know there are campuses that have.



1:19:13

So I'll again try to take the first stab at this. In my conversations with Evan about this and our attempts to be somewhat proactive. By the way, thank thank you, faculty, your response to the last faculty survey that, you know, was presented to you put us over the top with zoom. It's very clear that zoom is the preferred solution here. And you gave me the data to identify that that is, in fact the case. But having said that, you know, in having the conversation with Evan about this has been very helpful and proactive with me and having our zoom representative get a quote to us. And that quote, If I remember correctly in coop includes sort of creating that inter operability interfacing with Blackboard.



1:20:24

My understanding is that at the Sunni level,



1:20:29

the system level they're attempting to negotiate with zoom. And that capability is part of that basic negotiation. But with respect to our own quote, my understanding is that our quote that we received separately from the Xoom representative, includes creating that interfacing for interoperability with Blackboard



1:21:01

Evan, you can correct me if I'm wrong.



1:21:05

Very rarely, you're wrong. It's a it's a fault of yours.



1:21:14

Okay, so, so thank you for that.



1:21:17

Um, can I interrupt and just answer one question real fast.



1:21:20

Oh, please. The orientation sessions do offer Blackboard training for the new students. They have a series of pop up sessions that they've been doing through the orientation. So they are ensuring the new students, at least they're getting trained for Blackboard.



1:21:37

Okay, thank you. That's, that's very helpful. I know that was a serious concern to a number of people. Um, so the next question is specifics on it service devices and other resources. How are the students who need these IoT devices identified? So how are we figuring out which students are the ones that are in need of that kind of support? Maybe you can speak to that or don't.



1:22:02

So I'm going to, I'm going to try to channel some of my inner Barbara Hillary. Barbara has been very helpful in this area and she's the contact person out of Academic Affairs, handling this. I think what we're doing there is we're using the Service Desk again as the contact point. And then I think there is a vetting process and that lead sort of to the disperse, you know, to the loan itself of the device. And I'll just let barbers sort of chat with all of you about that. If she's on the call.



1:22:52

Did you mean chat verbally or chat? chat



1:22:58

which either way He is okay with Mike. I'm okay with.



1:23:03

Go ahead, Barb. It's always good to hear from you. Go ahead.



1:23:07

Yeah, so I'll just say that that. That's right what Duncan said. So we are we are creating a questionnaire that will be put up a final decision probably on the portal so that students can request a laptop and then we have a record that lots of people can see and we can monitor who's been getting them. The the information that we got it lessons learned and in conversations over the summer was that we should try and prioritize those students who seem to be most in need. In order to do that we can't really answer on a first come first serve basis. So we're trying to collect information from students and then we will then go through them and see who is it that's, you know, who has Pell Grants etc, that that seems to put them most at risk in terms of Getting technology. I'm also I think I told everybody in email earlier but but just to repeat, there was a donor Sunni wide, who put up money so that all incoming freshmen eo p students are given their own laptop. So we have about 50 new EP students coming in as freshmen. Those students received laptops over the summer and also had been working into summer program getting exposure to Ms teams and to Blackboard which should help them in the fall.



1:24:35

Thanks, Barb, since you're here, maybe you can help with the next question, which is sort of a follow up it says, Well, I'm sorry, go ahead.



1:24:42

Yes, it's having a fight can a quick sentence here, the same tears act that is available to Sunni is also available to students? The priority of course is for health and safety by technology has been identified the major issue so I see See questions on the chat about how are we helping students with do not have internet or devices. So a student can apply for tears money to get a laptop to for their own and not depend on the college for a loaner device.



1:25:21

Follow up to that the students who are on financial aid and receiving traditional book vouchers can use those vouchers at the store at the campus bookstore for technology issues. So they could put it towards a laptop, for instance, from the campus bookstore.



1:25:39

So I think you guys have kind of mentioned this a little bit, but the next question is, okay, there's an answer for laptops. What about Internet access? So how does that work? I mean, they can get Kazakh money or what would they do if they don't have internet access?



1:25:57

Well, I guess I will ultimately defer to him In here, but that is going to be a problem if they don't have internet access. So we you know, if there are still some places where you can get free Wi Fi, you know, the, I mean, people can't really hang out at Starbucks the way they used to. But if if they, if they are in a public place that has access, they could use that. There's been some talk about trying to expand access or capability on campus so that we have a stronger signal. If people happen to be on campus for something else, they would be able to access it. But and then we are trying to we've been piggybacking on what CUNY has been doing trying to find information on sources that are giving either free or low cost access to internet, there doesn't seem to be as much of that in the fall as there was less spring. So with that, I'll turn Do you have any if you want to add anything else?



1:27:03

Not much. It's a ongoing conversation on many different campuses and a number of different solutions, but and we're looking at them from parking lot Wi Fi, to opening specific areas on the campus for Wi Fi access. But all this is part of our, our plan. Our plan is to have mostly the campus closed. So we are gathering as Barbara said, there is a student survey out there to identify how big is that need? And then we'll make alternate plans or as Provost keep saying we'll pivot to a solution that will meet the needs of our students.



1:27:46

Okay, thank you and and you can tackle this next one too. Sorry. There's a lot lot for you to handle here. It's just a general question, but I think it's a good opportunity for you to share with us what you think we don't already know. says what are the other reasons sources that it is providing. So what are the things you provide that maybe faculty aren't aware of?



1:28:07

Right. So the most important resource that we're providing right now for the first time and in the fall semester, is providing technical support and students, not only Blackboard support, but also technical support to their personal devices. So we put the plan together and we are tweaking it as we go along, anticipating how many questions we're going to be receiving from our students. We haven't established the boundaries. In other words, because of specific restrictions, we're not allowed to touch the device. So we will try to help them remotely on their personal devices as much as we can. And then we'll identify resources for them to go if something is broken or is not functioning in order to Continue remote instruction from as a one off cases we did give loaning laptops until their computers fix. For the summer, we tested this in the summer sessions and from local areas where they have Wi Fi and they're providing technical support. In other words, hardware effects for spins, what we have not, we do not have a good answer to is printing if the students need to print, and then again, our faculty need to print. We haven't found a good remote solution at this point.



1:29:40

Thank you very much. There's a question here is a general question that I'm going to answer it says well, the questions about teaching that weren't answered be answered somewhere else. If you have a question about teaching that you feel was not answered, go ahead and put it in the chat. Again, sorry to ask you to do that. But we will get it covered. I just asked all of you to bear with me. I do have a lot of other questions that were submitted before that are under this heading. So we're going to keep marching along. Here's the next question. You can't see this in the document, but I have it from from earlier. It says will housing be made available to our homeless students?



1:30:22

So maybe Dunkin or I will,



1:30:26

I'll try to channel my inner sama shake on this one.



1:30:31

I mean, you don't have to I can channel.



1:30:33

Oh, I didn't realize you on the call. Yes, please go ahead. I would love to



1:30:38

see that in our summer that Duncan has actually given you 30 seconds go.



1:30:44

The so if you want me to do that, I'll just quickly say that I'm in anticipation that this was going to occur. I think that Residential Life has been doing its best to coordinate an effort For to make alternate arrangements for our homeless students. And it does include working in some cases with units within academic affairs where those homeless students are focused in terms of numbers. But but that's me ending my channeling of my inner summer.



1:31:24

So we've also have tried to reach out to some local hotels and see if they have any rates going on. That'd be supportive our students in this time period unfortunately, that has not been the case the rates are still pretty expensive, and it would be it would cost them a lot more than what our housing rates would be. We are I've talked to Laura anchor about this a few times already and I know her I can feel her frustration and I feel frustrated as well. We are working with a third party vendor that currently works with a Delphi university to provide off campus housing for their students and one of the good things about that services that they try and work with students to have them do roommate matching or selection. So it does to provide students with a little bit more support. Right now where we are with that is that we are working the we are working with a company to finalize the verbiage on the contract, the concern of the goal for us is to make sure that the college does not get held liable for any work that this third party vendor provides. So I'm, I'm really hopeful that sometime this week, the contract gets finalized and that we can provide that information to our students. So that would be the case. I've been working with students on an individual basis over the summer so I have my staff and in residence life as well. I'm sure all of you at one point or other have had some conversation with these students too But at this point, looking for the one of the challenges with with providing students With an altered housing is, in a lot of cases, because of what's going on right now, landlords are very restrictive and they're looking for things along the lines of first first month, last month's deposits and, and significant amount of upfront costs that come with it. So that's also creating some challenges for our students. So we're trying to find solutions that would, that would result in students being able to use their financial aid dollars from the fall to be able to do that, but we also know that that that has its own challenges where that those monies may not be available right at the beginning of the semester. So so we direct the students with the cares act money, and that our foundation is also working on, on on creating a process where where some of the fundraising that was done, will also result in access to some level of support for our students, but at this time, were the most definitive source that we're hoping to have finalized this week is the third party vendor that works with college students altogether. There are some housing facilities in Brooklyn and in the city that are again, third party private housing options for students. But again, those options tend to be still a little bit more expensive than what we provided OSP. So we have directed students with those some of those resources as well.



1:34:31

So follow up is are we taking housing? Are we taking and housing international students for the fall?



1:34:39

Not on campus right now? Okay.



1:34:43

Um, okay. Thank you very much for those answers. We're, we're going to to move on to a discussion of academic support. I know there was some good discussion in the chat about ossd services. And so here's the question, How well can we meet the needs of the ossd students, especially those taking remote online classes? I



1:35:14

think he responded to that. That question actually, further down the road. Stacy, are you there?



1:35:22

You're Hi.



1:35:25

Uh, yeah, I did put a response in the side. If you can't see it or toggle back, I just want to reiterate that I'll be having a zoom session for faculty next Monday at 2pm. Chris is going to be providing me with the zoom link for you. And I will be going over how to provide accommodations best in a virtual environment for ossd students and you can ask specific questions. I'll also send an email to faculty addressing specifically issues and include an FAQ on the ossd webpage. Okay, that's



1:36:05

very helpful and important. Thank you very much for that. And similarly, I'm just going to ask, because I know Christine put some really great information in the chat. But there is a question here about both mental health services and telehealth services and how they're available to students. Um, I know there's a lot of people that could answer but maybe Christine, you could just say what you put in the chat or someone could give a general answer. What will be available for students in terms of psychiatric care and also telehealth services?



1:36:40

Yes, hi. So I will answer about student health and I think Oren is on the call the director from the counseling center. So the Student Health Center has remained open throughout this whole pandemic and we are open during the summer and in June we resumed in person appointments. So we will resume our regular hours of operation In the fall, which are Monday through Friday, Monday and Tuesday until 7pm, and Wednesday through Friday until five, we are available to see students in person because certain examinations require in person appointments. It's difficult to do it over telehealth. If they're not available to come to campus or would prefer a telehealth appointment. The nurses and doctors are available for that as well. As far as the Counseling Center, I will let orange speak about his department.



1:37:31

Hi, I'm Owen Schaffer. And our department is open and continue to be open so out because this will open Monday to Friday nine to five. And we continue to provide psychotherapy, copy therapy and psychiatric care to all students. Yeah, easiest way to reach us is to write an email to contact center@westbury.edu.



1:37:57

usually get back to students within an hour.



1:38:04

Okay, thank you, Lauren and Christine, thank you very much. Okay, so we have a question here. Will students who need to avail themselves of campus facilities to do their work or fully participate in courses such as access to computers or computer labs to connect to their class or quiet distraction free workspace be able to do so I know that access to the campus is going to be severely limited. But is there any access for students that want to use the facilities? Maybe Dunkin is the right person or anyone, anyone who feels there?



1:38:40

I could answer the question. So this is kind of an ongoing struggle for us, right? We we understand that having our facilities closed is you know, some thing that helps us address the major health and safety issue. But at the same time, we're trying to balance that against equity and access, right. As I think you've heard already, I, I've input as part of my request in the cares Act funds from academic affairs. I've asked for some consideration of outdoor antennas, which I suspect would support some of the outdoor spaces that adjoin both the Campus Center and the Student Union Building. What I would say about the question of facility is there's going to be extremely limited access. I think if students end up in our buildings in some very small Available areas, using their laptops or what have you, I don't know that we're going to necessarily kick them out of the buildings. But I think it, you know, to be very frank in terms of what our plan says, our facility is a largely operating while we are open, our facility is largely operating in a remote space. And so there's likely to be a number of spaces on the campus that will have limited access, if any, in terms of car doors being opened, and some student alcoves being opened and things of that nature. You may recall, and I know I got a lot of chuckles out of faculty some months back when I said, you know, as we think about the nature of the spread We should be rethinking some of our outdoor spaces on the campus in terms of what they might offer us as instructional spaces and I, you know, I made a comment about the patio outside of, you know, Dunkin Donuts and the Campus Center atrium terrorists area that has some little outdoor area there. I suspect that as we go into the fall semester, we will see students that will attempt to come to the campus. And if they come, they'll get to us whatever space is available, but they should understand that we're operating remotely, which means that there will be severely limited in terms of their choices.



1:42:02

Thank you, Duncan. Okay, we're going to close out this section. Just with a couple of questions. I think we have a bit of a follow up. Not necessarily to what you just said. But it's it's in your ballpark Duncan, it says there's confusion on if we are open or closed. I thought we were open but teaching remote. So I guess it's a question about what's the status of the campus? Is it open or closed?



1:42:28

Yeah, so I think Mike Kinane probably addressed this earlier in the chat. We are open. Right. I think, I think where the confusion comes in is clarifying what open means. And the point you made Mike is very true. were open delivering instruction remotely. And what that really means is that if we're largely delivering instruction In a remote space, the kind of facility that normally would be available that supports on campus, academics, you know, involves on campus academic supports, those facilities are now largely doing the same thing. They're operating in the remote space to offer that support in the remote space. So the campus is open, but we are delivering our services remotely. And so with the exception of very few services, you know, as we've already identified in terms of courses, and and by the way, just as one clarification even to the facility dependence that we're talking about, if you look at the actual number of students that our faculty are telling us are going to come In two, those facility dependent courses, at any given point in time, those numbers are actually low there. They're well below the 10%. That, you know, we've identified in the plan, even though the number of courses are perhaps getting around an area that was bordering on being a little bit higher than we had anticipated.



1:44:31

Thank you, Duncan. Okay, we're going to close out this section with one final question. This is a question which I think has been asked in some ways a little bit before, but I think it is central to the worries or concerns or anxieties of many faculty. So I'm going to put it back out there because it's showing up again, and maybe you could just give some good advice. So the question is, if there's an IT emergency while I'm teaching my class, who do I contact? What do I do? And so, Evan, I don't know if you want to speak to that, or you know, anyone who just has advice, you know, getting ready for the fall, I'm ready to teach and I have an IT disaster. What, what's, what's my next step?



1:45:18

phone call, who do I call? What? What should I do?



1:45:22

I'll I'll take a stab at this, if anybody can hear me.



1:45:25

Yes. Okay.



1:45:29

As I said in my previous comment when the question was asked, we have a chat capability between 830 and five. So in case that you have an emergency and you're trying to reach the help desk or service desk, for hardware, software, any kinds of questions, you just go to the service desk area, and click I would like to chat and prioritize my ticket and so we can Be able to help you. The concern is that we do not have 24. Seven availability, especially for the online courses. And if it is for Blackboard specific questions, or emergencies, we depend on the availability of instructional designers and the good people from open Sony to respond to, but do not expect an immediate response.



1:46:29

I'm sorry, I have one of the people who says that question several other people have, how do we get to the are you saying just go to the email, the email, where how do we access the chat capability? That's what's not clear to me and I think other people as



1:46:44

well. If you go to the portal



1:46:49

on the faculty, you'll qualify to service that.



1:46:53

Yes,



1:46:54

you just click that icon and you'll be able to see the chat capability or the ability to open a ticket?



1:47:03

Or ticket. Okay.



1:47:06

So Evan, we have, I think a good follow up here asking, Can an email be sent to the faculty with these kind of instructions about what to do? I think this is a major source of concern. So I think an email like that might be very helpful.



1:47:18

Absolutely.



1:47:20

Okay. Thanks. Thank you very much. Okay. We're just a little bit behind time, but we've got a lot of questions answered. But so we're going to move on, on the The next item, which we don't have any specific questions for, as far as I can see, is preparedness in the event of re emergence, and we should acknowledge Martha's very good comment. That, you know, we shouldn't let our guards down. We know that we're still in the middle of this thing. But I do think this part is important in case the not saying that we're out of this, but the infection rate Go go very high on what is the plan in place and that certainly is addressed in the restart plan but maybe Duncan, you could talk to us about what the restart plan says and what we can anticipate if that happens. For instance, the flu season comes, the infection rates go go much higher. What can we expect?



1:48:22

So I think first and foremost, we're facility dependent courses are concerned. I've been communicating out and certainly in my interactions with the deans I've talked about this and my interactions with the faculty I've talked about this with my in my interactions with faculty particularly that are in those areas, the visual arts, medium productions and science stem you know, lab areas. I've indicated that the there's got to be contingency ready Should there be the need to suspend all face to face on campus instruction depending upon conditions on on the ground at whatever they are at the time. So, the first level in terms of response is to pivot from on campus, facility dependent courses to the remote space. And I have asked that all of the faculty that are affected by that



1:49:41

the



1:49:44

the to suspend facility dependent instruction beyond that what I what we I think what we have typically said In our our plan really has to do with sort of dealing with the emergency as it arises, if there is a need for us to revisit some of the temporary solutions that were put in place at the time that we had to pivot in the spring, we'll certainly revisit some of those. I was very careful not to step in a place that was outside of the purview of the administration, and sort of trying to craft academic policy. But as all of you know, we got the academic policy and practices committee to agree with us on what we were going to do to suspend things like academic standards. policies that would otherwise have caused some students to be put out on suspend academic suspension, or dismissal. And we also worked, for instance, in creating a temporary fix for the credit, no credit policy. Now I know that I recall seeing in the chat, I think it was a question from Chris Hopson concerning posting what will be the withdrawal date. I will speak with Jacob in the registrar about that right after I get off this call, because as far as I know, we are in our prior discussions about this. We've established that to be whatever the normal dates are for that process. And the only thing that we did last time, you know, in the spring, when we had that Do this pivot was for the for the credit, no credit policy, we relaxed the policy to maximize the flexibility of students to exercise the option and we did that in two ways we took away what is the normal period for them to opt in, which is I think the first three weeks of the semester. And we extended the the time frame for the the final opt in to, I think it was a week or so after finals. Will, you know, in the event that we need to revisit those kinds of actions because of situations on the ground We'll do that. But what we think our plan does is by virtue of having our density so low on the campus, we think that an emergency pivot is likely to, in a disparate way affect the facility dependent courses, and therefore we've made those courses sort of the priority of our planning outside of those courses, contingencies that went into place on a temporary basis as they did during the spring, remain available to us and we will work with the faculty and faculty governance to make those things happen as we need to.



1:53:51

Thank you very much, Duncan.



1:53:53

Okay, we're going to move on to our last official agenda item, which is communication and education. I thought we might ask Ron just a little bit late. So we have a brief summary. I was going to ask Mike Kinane, if you could just summarize a little bit. I know you've talked about this already in some of your answers, but just to give some good information to the faculty about how we'll be hearing things, how information will be communicated about what's going on, because obviously, the Fall is going to come unexpected things are going to happen, and what should we be looking for and preparing in terms of getting that information and reacting to it?



1:54:34

Okay, the standing things we have planned will be the current for employees and students, the latter students were one of the lead items will be kind of this week I have figured out we're going to call you so that we can provide updates when the plan has changed, right because things are changing so parts of the plan will change based on circumstances around us. Some things that we decided we might need to do differently. And on other updates, the then in between that, I would imagine, critical updates are going to come from those who have to provide them. Right? Kind of as it was in the spring, if things go haywire, like it did in March. Whoever is either the officer in charge or the president at that point will be dictating to us how we kind of deliver that stuff. I don't know if they're gonna want to be in front of all of it. Some of it, I have no idea. That's that. That's a little kind of a piece that we'll have to figure out once we learn who the personalities are. But I don't see it being drastically different than the spring when there's emergent information. Because that email system is the one thing we have that we can touch everybody.



1:55:57

It actually leads me to make a point.



1:56:01

Perhaps asking the faculty to suggest to students that they go into the portal and sign up for the emergency messaging system. They're going to get an email, but that emergency messaging system will also enable them to get text messages if they sign up for it. We've seen that number kind of vary over time, but the more we have signed up for all of that, the faster we know we'll be able to get information to them. But I think for the most part, that's that's kind of what our plan is.



1:56:35

Okay, that sounds great. And maybe a you know, even a statement about that in a syllabus or something is, is could be helpful on just for our faculty members. But the that's, that's our final agenda item, but there's a couple things I want to do just before we close. First, I want to acknowledge that we have our SGA President kalif And I wanted to call on him to see, you know, this, this has been about informing faculty. But of course, the student perspective is very important to us. And I want to give you the opportunity to say anything, you can just go ahead and go on mic to speak from the student perspective or to ask questions. We very much want to hear from you before we end the meeting.



1:57:25

Hello, everyone, I really don't have anything to say right now. Um, we have an SGA meeting this Friday to um, come up with everything that we are going to address with the faculty and administration. So I don't have a comment about anything. Thank you.



1:57:41

That's fine. I didn't mean to put you on the spot. I just wanted to acknowledge your presence. You honor us by attending the meeting and to thank you for that and to let you know, we're trying very hard you know, to to prepare and to do our best for you as we know that this is a very difficult time. You know, going to college is a hard thing. It is hard to get through college and the best of times And under these circumstances, it can feel almost impossible. And we know that and we're just please communicate, you know, to to the student body that we're doing our best for you.



1:58:11

Okay? What I can say is, um, we're working with the College Foundation to put money towards book vouchers, and scholarships. So that's what we're working on at the moment. One more thing, we're trying to work on an SGA chat box. So like when it comes to questions and stuff like you guys raised, they could ask the SGA and if we have the answer, we will answer them if not, we're communicate with whichever department it falls under and try to get information back to the students.



1:58:36

Because we have a lot of incoming freshmen and very are usually the ones that get lost with everything. So I think something like that is is a fantastic idea. And I've seen like the way students communicate and help each other and I think facilitating that is an absolutely outstanding idea. So thank you very much.



1:58:55

Okay, so



1:59:01

your mic is off.



1:59:04

Thank you. That's very good. side.



1:59:09

Sorry about that. I, before we close, just a couple of things. I know we've had a lot of administrators join us and many of you have spoken today. And thank you very much for all the great information. I I know there may be people here who were not called on for a particular question. And I want to give you an opportunity. So anyone who feels like they have some very important thing that they were here to share, and you didn't get to go on, Mike. I want to give you that opportunity. Now. You can either just say the chat window or it's okay, I know there's 140 of us. So let's all go on. But if there's anyone that has a particular thing, they really want to get out there. I want to give that opportunity now.



1:59:51

Going once going twice, put it in the chat.



1:59:55

And then a similar vein, I hope you guys don't mind that I have basically just been reading your questions. I really love to have as many people go on mic. I do not like to hear myself talk this much. It was just the only way I could imagine to get through the number of questions we had. So I want to give an opportunity for any faculty member who would like to go on mic. Feel free to unmute yourself, or or, you know, put in the chat if anyone wants to make a comment before we close.



2:00:31

Okay, it seems like everyone's all talked out, and that's fine. One absolute last thing I'm going to add, and that will end the meeting very shortly here, but we're going to keep the zoom meeting, active for anyone who wants to hang out and just have more informal discussion. Again, we had to cut the discussion of the Presidential Search short, because we needed to get to these questions. So I want to welcome anyone to to Stay and ask questions about the search or to continue the discussion about this fall. Thank you all very much. And thanks to everyone for your participation, especially in the middle of August. Really, this is an overwhelming response. And I think it did a lot of good. So thank you all very, very much. And with that, we will officially close the meeting. Thank you.



2:01:26

Would I be able to ask the question?



2:01:27

Oh, sure. Sure.



2:01:29

Okay. When it comes to like books and stuff for the fall semester on, how would students go about getting those textbooks?



2:01:42

Yeah, I'm sorry, because I, I didn't quite hear the last part. Can you please ask the question again?



2:01:46

Okay, so when it comes to textbooks and stuff for the fall semester, how the students go about getting their textbooks.



2:01:52

Okay. This is a this is a very good question. Maybe sama Duncan has Students get textbooks, they can't go to the bookstore.



2:02:03

I think I know the answer to that.



2:02:05

Lamin



2:02:06

xyc requested myself. The bookstore has a website, you can go on the website and they will arrange with you how you get the textbook. That's what I was told by the bookstore. Thank you.



2:02:27

Okay, um, so again, the meeting is officially done. Anyone who wants to hang out, you can unmute yourself, we can have as much discussion as you want anything that didn't get discussed, but it's informal. Um, so, so feel free.



2:02:40

I have a quick question.



2:02:42

What's the what's the I missed it? I know we talked about it a couple times. If I want to come up to campus to go to my office to collect some books and things. Do what do I have to do? Can I just come?



2:02:55

Yeah, so I'm still on I was about to ask you Mike. If you wanted me to leave Did you want me to hang around?



2:03:02

But I think it's helpful if you do hang around.



2:03:04

Okay, so I'm still on? Here's the short answer. The short answer is we're not we're not prohibiting visits to the campus by any faculty members. What really is more, the question for us is where faculty want to come on a more regular basis, particularly if they decide that they want to teach their courses from the campus. And potentially then create sort of the added issues that you heard even even motha speak about, which is sort of deploying cleaners to make sure bathroom facilities and multiple places are being cleaned and things of that nature if it's simply of Visit, you know, because you need to get something out of your office or something like that. You just simply right now have to fill out the COVID-19 screening questionnaire, get the green light show up at the front gate, show that to the officer at the gate. And they're going to let you on the campus. I mean, that's the that's the current procedure.



2:04:27

Is there any lead time that we need to when submitting it or



2:04:32

get turned around or?



2:04:33

Yeah, so so i think so the COVID-19 screening questionnaire is in the portal. Soon as you fill out the questionnaire, it will send you an email, the email will indicate whether you're green lighted or red lighted right and if you're green lighted, you can immediately come to the campus with that and show them To the officer that is at the gate. The thing that I was speaking about earlier, was to discourage faculty coming on a regular basis if they have not made us aware that it is their plan to be on the campus on a more frequent basis. And I only mentioned that because I know that the deans or have already questioned me about this because we do have some faculty for instance, I think that they will be able to do a better job in their remote instruction if they're able to come to the campus and deliver the instruction from a classroom on the campus. So hopefully that answers your your question. It does. Thank



2:05:56

you. Thank you, Duncan, you Welcome to welcome



2:06:00

Continue to hang around Mike. Thanks, Tom.









- 1 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai