e

e
e

planning process. He distributed a package( see attachments) which
explained the goals and responsibilities set forth by the President.
The Chair of Faculty Senate then read letters from two members of the
BPC who could not attend this meeting. Rita Buttermilch proposed
continuing. Robert Hoyte also supported continued participation and
noted differences in style and believed they could be overcome with
diplomacy.
Aubrey Bonnett urged faculty to continue participating on the
committee .
Other members of the BPC expressed their views:
It was noted that there had been no meetings since January 31° and
that the BPC Chair had not received information about budget work or
formal set of activities and budgets Also whatever was on paper was
not working as envisioned
and unfair to attribute it to disrespectful
faculty.
A senator noted that the mayor issues were process issues.
Another senator believed that he would not be involved in cutting jobs
and that there was the issue of style that we could come together and
work the chemistry.
e

Other senators commented :
That it was not that we wanted to get of the process but that the
participation within the BPC had to take place within the
framework of governance. The operation of the BPC by a
subgroups was not agreed to by the Senate and subgroup had never
reported to the BPC , nor had the committee seen a completed
budget.
Another suggestion was to interface the subcommittee and report

back to BPC. If it could be articulated and expressed , then there would be

a basis to drop the resolution.

At this point, the Chair asked for a vote to table the resolution,

explaining that the resolution would appear when someone wanted it to.
The vote was 6-8-4.
The Senate asked to extend the time to continue the debate, the
vote was 7-7-0, the Chair voting yes to break the tie and thus end the

discussion.

( The vote was taken and the resolution defeated (5-12-1).J

SGA Report ( M. Teloki)

Several announcements were made: Diversity Day on April 24, faculty were
asked to encourage students to vote and to support the Senior Class in their
request to wear hoods in graduation.