STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORKCOLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, October 23, 202012:30 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available
at:https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Minutes
Roster of Senators Present​: ​Mike Kavic (chair), Dana Sinclair (secretary/treasurer),
Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), John Estes
(AtLarge Rep to the EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At Large Rep to the EC), Laure Anker
(FY), Blidi Stemm (CE), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Do
Young Park(Math & CIS), Robert Mevissen (HP), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Jani Deepa
(EN), Noustos Christos (BS), Roger Mayer (AC), Barber, Llana Barber (AS), Curtis
Holland (SY), Sarah Smith (PH), Non-Voting Members of the Senate: ​Duncan Quarless
(Provost/AVP), Barbara Hillery (AA), Raj Devasagayam (Dean, SOB)
Visitors​: ​Claudia Marin Andrade, Rahwa Haile, Milini Kumar, Sylvie Kande, Manya
Mascareno, Jacob Heller, Patrick O’Brien, Jermaine Archer, Danielle Lee, Chris
Hartman, Amanda Frisken, Ana Martinez, Gary Levanti, Renu Balyan, Sheyi Oladipo, ,
Keisha Goode, Andrew Mattson, Jillian Crocker, Younjoo Kim, Kasia Platt, Regina
Scarbrough, Lina Gilic, Diana Sukhram, Martha Livingston, Solomon Chak, Geta
Techanie, Randy Daniels, Pat Lettini, Evan Kobolakis, Thomas Delgiudice, Cante Hope,
Robert Mevissen, Svetlana Jovic, Betty Barbera, Rachel Kalish, Lisa Lewin, Anthony
Barbera, Youngjoo Kim, Wayne Edwards, Sarah Smith, Frank Pizzardi, Carol Quirke,
Jacob Heller, Tejas Bouklas
Roster of Senators Absent​:​ Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Lisa Payton (AE),
Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC),
Bonnie Eannone (professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Patty Harris (LE), Edislav
Manetovic (LEC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Erin Toolis (PY), Eric Hagan (TLRC),
Catherine Bernard (VA)
I. Call to Order
II. Approval of Minutes for October 9th, 2020
● Minutes will be approved at next meeting
III. Chair’s Report
● Last week the executive committee met with UUP leadership, Martha Livingston
● There is a shortfall in the NYS budget. It is crucial that governance is aware and
that faculty have a role in addressing budgetary issues
● Reviving the RABPC which was the Budget Committee for the campus is key
● Conversation is provost and officer in charge have taken place

● We are going to stand up for and defend the academic mission of the institution
in terms of budgetary decisions and jobs.
● Applauding decisions made about how to handle the Covid pandemic here at
OW
● Letter from SUNY regarding anti-racism training, He endorsed it.
● Nominations are still open for the faculty showcase. This is to recognize faculty
who've done innovative teaching.
● Other faculty awards handled by FUAC are still taking nominations
IV. Provost’s Report
● Acknowledging rawa Heilig, who is in the news, currently, as a recipient and
member of the latest cohort of interdisciplinary research teams, within the Rhys
interdisciplinary research Leaders Program of the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation, congratulations on their recent grant award.
● Congratulate Mike kavic, who also recently appeared in the Long Island business
news for his NSF grant and Research Award
● Department of budget withheld funds from us due to current circumstances
● Right now we are working with a six month contingency budget
● Spring semester will be largely remote with schedule access to the library
● Spring Break will be used as a study hall week
● Midterm grades must be in for all students with the exclusion of graduate
students.
● Many of the goals identified in the original faculty diversity plan submitted to
SUNY are on track to being met.
● Climate survey and faculty showcase are being postponed.
● Anthony Barbera​: Middle States, two important dates. Preliminary visit by chair
of visitation team on December 2, 2020. Follow up meeting on the following day
December 3.
● Town Hall meeting scheduled Monday November 9​th​ to discuss the self study
report.
V.​ ​Panther Peer-to-Peer Fundraising Campaign
● Randy Daniels: ​Serving in​ ​institutional advancement on an interim basis, taking
over for Wayne Edwards
● Looking for new ways to build resources for the students and their programs.
Building a sustainable program of grassroot support for student scholarships and
student related programs is his goal.
● Phase two:​ ​outreach plan to major donors and plan giving
● Final phase:​ w
​ ill be a much more coordinated approach to pursuing both
academic and programmatic grants.
● Peer to peer: using the resources you have and leverage them, turning existing
donors into multiple donors.
● Asked all 63 people on the call to donate 55 dollars. As of today they have raised
14,000 dollars with 102 supporters.

VI. University Faculty Senate Report
● Fall Plenary was virtual
● 25% budget cuts across SUNY will not be addressed until after the presidential
election
● Hiring freezes, unfilled vacancies, no extra service pay, of course releases were
mentioned, cuts to adjuncts was very common across many of the campuses.
One senator referred to cuts in mentoring programs at his facility. Other impacts
include canceling of under enrolled and withholding contractual raises were some
of the fears and concerns raised.
● Fear of closure and or consolidation of campuses.
● Very large fear is that SUNY will be converted from a traditional in person
educational system to an online educational system
● Many campuses were forced to suspend inperson classes due to a spike in
COVID19 cases
● Enrollment was a big issue, we show our value to SUNY through increased
enrollment. Ours is down 5.7%
● Many campuses are also in the process of a presidential search
● Executive order that came from President Trump basically combating race and
sex stereotyping. This can executive order expressed how complaints in and out
of the classroom can be filed.
● Several resolutions:​ ​The first resolution deals with racial equity and social justice
curriculum (2) joint statement on the search for the SUNY Chancellor (3) based
on a vote of no confidence for a resolution (4) importance of maintaining effective
shared governance practices during times of crisis. Copies were provided via
email.
VII. UUP Report
● Encourages everyone to get involved in phone banking
● Virtual rally about the stock transfer tax Will occur on November 9​th​ time TBA
● Labor management meeting with officer in charge next week. Question of adjunct
is extremely important
● 2% raise for fulltime faculty as well as adjuncts should have happened in
September. UUP is in court in an attempt to rectify this.
● Due to the type of COVID 19 test, UUP cannot mandate that each person be
tests but CSEA can mandate it.
● UUP would like to be included in Admins Health and Safety Committee.
● Pre-retirement workshops done by Walter Apple are now done virtual
● Newsletter should be coming out within the next week
VIII. Resolution: Anti-racism initiative
● Llana Barber to discuss the resolution
● Submitted this resolution on behalf of the community of practice on race and
racism
● Resolution was in response to the Faculty Senate resolution that was passed
back in June 2020, which committed Old Westbury to a position of solidarity with
the Black Lives Matter movement, with students, alumni, faculty and staff of

color, and with continued efforts on campus to work towards the erasure of racial
inequality and oppression
● Adhoc committee was formed to advance the June 2020 resolution in order to
create a coordinated approach to dismantling white supremacy and advancing
anti-racism on campus.
● Resolution was accepted by unanimous concept and discussion was opened up
● Unanimous consent to accept the amendment to the resolution
IX. HyFlex Rooms and IT concerns
● Tabled for next meeting
X. New Business
XI. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements
● New faculty research seminar on social and racial justice
● Calls for participation submit papers or proposals to Lisa Chin
XII. Adjournment
IX. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements
● TLRC will have their first roundtable discussion coming up Wednesday, October
21 2:30 to 3:50. Flyer will be available soon. Our topic is discussing difficult
topics navigating politics in the classroom
X. Adjournment