STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday Sept 7, 2018
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location NAB 1100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise
(M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Maureen Dolan
(Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana
Martinez (Professional), Amna Kamil (SGA), Laura Anker (FY), Jason Kaloudis (Lib.), Roger
Mayer (AC), Blidi Stemn (CE) , Jillian Nissen (BS), Camille Jones (CP), Deepa Jani (EN) , Jingyi
Song (HP), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY), Martha Livingston (PH), Ryoko Yamamoto
(SY) , Eric Hagan (VA), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)
Senators Absent: William Gillis (At-Large), Yu Lei (MMF) , Andrew Hashey (EE) , Jasmine
Mitchell (AS), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Chris Hobson (ARPT), Llana
Barber (LEC), Frank Sanacory (CAP)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Nancy Brown
(Dean SOE), Barbara Hillery (Dean SAS)
Visitors: Bonnie Eannone, Michael Kinane, Chris Notaro, Joanne Spadaro, Yumi Nicholson, Shalei
Simms, Anthony Barbera, DoYoung Park, Claudia Marin Andrade, Fred Fleisher, Helidon Giergji,
Jermaine Archer, Shalei Simms, Duncan Quarless, Jacob Heller
MINUTES
I.

Call to Order 12:37pm

II.

Approval of Minutes of May 18, 2018
•
•

The recognition of Minna Barrett’s service and leadership should be included in the
record, as agreed to by the Senate. This will be added to the minutes.
The following updates and clarifications were noted:
o On p. 2 in section 6 in the Univ. Senator report it was asked whether the campus
participated in re-enrollment? YES
o Note that Excelsior is often called “last dollar funding” so students need to apply
for other funding first. Some students get TAP or PEL but Excelsior only activates
after those other sources of funding.

1

III.

Introduction of Senators
•
•
•
•

IV.

Approval of 2018-19 FS Meeting Schedule
•

V.

Please note that only senators can vote on items, but all can introduce themselves.
Each person at the tables introduces themselves.
Note Chairs of standing committees are ex-officio and they also vote.
Note that Ad-Hoc Committee chairs such as OER do not have voting rights.

The schedule is approved by voice vote unanimously with no abstentions or
oppositions.

Special Order of Business (M. Dolan, Parliamentarian)
A. Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee Vice Chair
• L. Morris nominates J. D’Ambroise. A. Mattson asks J. D’Ambroise if she is willing to
step up as chair in the event that the Chair cannot serve for any reason. J.
D’Ambroise confirms that she is comfortable with this contingency position and
thanks A. Mattson for asking. J. D’Ambroise is elected by unanimous consent.
B. Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee Secretary/Treasurer
• Secretary/Treasurer is an officer of the Senate. Any voting member of the Senate
representing a department or any Senator-At-Large can be nominated. Chairs of
standing committees are not eligible to serve. Alternate senators are not eligible.
There are no nominations for this position. We will revisit this at next meeting.
C. Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee At-Large Rep.
• This person does not represents a department or any standing committee, but rather
represents the Faculty Senate at large. L. Morris nominates P. Ikeler and he declines.
M. Keefe is nominated by M. Dolan and she accepts. There are no other nominations.
• A. Mattson expresses his dismay at the lack of nominations. Why are only the
existing EC members being nominated? Why are folks volunteering to be on the
senate if they are not willing to participate in governance? Faculty comments that
this is a big problem. It did not used to be like this. Is this an administrative
problem? Is it a culture problem? This is not good for the older or newer
generations. He suggests to form an ad-hoc committee to look at the problem.
Faculty commends A. Mattson for his work as he has been very effective in the
position. A. Mattson comments that remember his nomination only came forward
after no senators would come forward. Faculty comments that many faculty feel
overwhelmed by committee work etc.. Many times faculty work is not supported by
administration and so faculty feel disenfranchised. Visiting faculty comments that
this is true. The At-Large position, A. Mattson comments, is a great position for a
junior faculty. We want to see junior faculty. Of course, M. Keefe is great for the
position as well but the position would be well suited for junior folks. Former AtLarge member and junior member comments that it is not bad to have a senior
member.
• D. Jani is nominated by J. Crocker. D. Jani declines due to other workload.
2

• The Parliamentarian reminds Senators of the nomination on the floor. The
nomination of M. Keefe is seconded. However, it is realized that the PEL alternate
senator is not eligible for the position. This issue is postponed until next meeting.
• Faculty asks where in the bylaws is the responsibilities for the At-Large position?
The Parliamentarian responds that the position is described on page 13 in the
bylaws, under paragraph G. The overall duties are implied by the name of position.
The Senate elects one of its members to the EC who represents the body to the EC.
That persons acts as a conduit between Senate and the EC, sharing Senators’
concerns and suggestions with EC. A senator comments that you learn by doing and
seeing. From the admin side, the admins need to see that faculty are active. The
inability to elect folks to senate sends a message to admins. Senate is an important
voice for faculty. Faculty comments that members should be active. This is
seconded. M. Dolan, Parliamentarian, notes that this whole discussion was out of
order but extremely informative.
VI.

FS Chair’s Report
1. SPAAR Task Force Update: Faculty governance is still working with the Office of the
President to create and charge the SPAAR Task Force, which will create and charge the
Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, & Review Committee (SPAAR) to coordinate and
monitor the implementation of the Strategic Plan.
o Action Item: Senators, please advise the EC about your willingness to participate
on the SPAAR Task Force and/or SPAAR Committee. Active faculty participation
will be crucial to the success of SPAAR and the Plan.
o J. Heller notes that this committee does not require senators. It is up to the faculty
themselves to select members. A. Mattson notes that governance should suggest
to the President a list of people to serve. We were supposed to send double the
amount of folks, so that the President can choose from among them. We could
submit less than the double amount. It should be an open and democratic process.
A. Barbera notes the double amount was a suggestion not agreed to by anyone. We
will see what happens in the negotiations.
2. Open Access Task Force Members Needed: Academic Affairs has asked Antonia
Digregorio to chair the OATF and “develop an Open Access policy” for an accessible
repository for scholarly and creative works. She is asking for three faculty members (SAS,
SOB, SOE.) Links:
o

http://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/open-access/

o https://www.suny.edu/about/leadership/board-oftrustees/meetings/webcastdocs/Tab11_Campus%20Open%20Access%20Policies
%20and%20System%20Repository.pdf
3

o Again, note that these members do not need to be senators. A. Barbera explains
that open access is with regards to research output. SUNY suggests every campus
has an electronic depository. SUNY has D-space, an electronic depository. How is
our campus going to handle open access? There is a deadline of spring 2021 by
which we have to submit policy statement explaining how we will deal with open
access. Please go see the SUNY website and search open access to SUNY
scholarship.
3. Committee Vacancies: The Faculty Senate Chair is charged with filling committee
vacancies that remain unfilled after the election.
o APPC: Two vacancies filled.
•

Katarzyna Platt (MMF/SOB)-U, runner-up, two-year appointment (20182020)

•

Yu Lei (MMF-SOB)-U, runner-up, two-year appointment (2018-2020)

o ARPT: One vacancy filled.
•

Fredrick Fleisher (VA/SAS)-U, one-year appointment (2018-2019)

o FJC: Two Vacancies for SAS representatives. The Faculty Senate chair will appoint
from list of runners-up to a one-year term (2018-2019).
o FUAC: Three Vacancies. November due date looming.
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)
•

Distinguished
????
Service Professor
Distinguished
????
Teaching Professor
Prof. or Assoc. Prof. McLaughlin, Patricia 2020
10+ yrs (1 of 3)
Prof. or Assoc. Prof. Kim Myong-Hi
2020
10+ yrs (2 of 3)
Prof. or Assoc. Prof.
????
10+ yrs (3 of 3)
D. Quarless explains that FUAC is responsible for awards such as
Distinguished Professor and Chancellor’s Award and Distinguished Adjunct.
The FS chair can send a designee, and that person would need to be at the
rank of associate professor. M. Livingston thought she was on the
committee. She thought you either have to be distinguished or excellent.
No, that was out-voted a while ago. Yes, M. Livingston can serve. It is
ambiguous as to whether many Distinguished Professors can serve, rather
than it being one slot to fill. M. Dolan, Parliamentarian, reads description of
membership of FUAC from the bylaws (Article III, section E, item 2): “The
4

Committee shall consist of eight voting members, including a student
representative, a Distinguished Service Professor, a Distinguished Teaching
Professor, a Chancellor’s Award recipient, the Faculty Senate Chair (or
designee).…” FUAC must conform to SUNY guidelines. Faculty of
distinguished rank have historically been a large proportion of FUAC
membership. D. Quarless comments that if the committee did not have
adequate membership then participation was solicited by someone
representing Distinguished Professorship category. “Shall include” means
someone satisfying one of these criteria was the interpretation, not as a
requirement. It does not matter if it is many distinguished people. We
added the 10+ years but there is no requirement that there is one from
every category. Faculty refers to SUNY instructions for that committee, and
it does say the person must be distinguished. Faculty notes that the
committee meets once and it is not that much work. M. Livingston
comments that when there is a person from a committee member’s
department you must recuse yourself so this is a challenge for the
committee in terms of being fully staffed. The senate can vote to make an
exception so that it is fully staffed. We should refer the matter to FRRC for
next bylaws revision.
o LEC: One Vacancy Filled, One Vacancy Remains.
•

Humanities Domain Representative Needed: Faculty Senate Chair is
contacting humanities departments for nominations for one-year
appointment.

•

Basic Communications Vacancy filled by appointment of Anahi Douglas
(ENG-SAS)-U to a one-year term (2018-2019.)

o SLC: One Vacancy. Faculty Senate Chair will contact next 9 runners-up until
vacancy if filled with one-year appointment (2018-2019.)

IV.

Provost’s Report
• A. Barbera reports that middle states has begun for the next campus visit in spring
2021. Please communicate to departments that this has been started. This will involve
participation from all the entities on campus. This is our regional accreditor. For
financial aid, accreditation is required. Being involved in middle states results in
tangible changes on campus. There will be 3 co-chairs: J. Heller, A. Barbera, and M.
5

•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•

Torrell. M. Torrell is now the faculty co-chair since J. Heller moved into an admin
position. There will be a middle states exec. committee of 5-6 people and another
committee of more people. Tentatively there will be 8 working groups. Middle States
has combined from 14 standards to 7. The 8th group will work on a separate report
called the compliance report where we provide evidence of compliance to federal
regulations including transfer policy, communication with students, student ID
verification, etc.. This effort in total will require about 100 people. For faculty we like to
get a mix of senior and new people. Senior has knowledge and junior will get
knowledge. You will learn how pieces of the campus operate. Key dates:
o workshop planning in November
o spring 2019 we will create a design document
o the middle states liason comes on campus next spring for a preliminary visit to
approve the plan for our self-study
o 2019-2020 working groups will work
o fall 2020 middle states chair will visit campus to review draft of plan and meet
with various bodies on campus
o spring 2021 actual Middle States campus visit
Please address any questions about middle states to the co-chairs.
Faculty suggest sending info about what the senate committees are. This will happen
during the TLRC new faculty committee, but new faculty are pressured much earlier and
they are not provided information. Committees are explained in the bylaws. The
intention has been to do faculty orientation before classes start. TLRC Chair reports
that their orientation focuses on teaching. FRRC reports to new faculty at the full faculty
meeting so they should report on committee functions.
D. Quarless reports that OER had 12 courses last year (10 in spring, 2 in fall). This fall
we already have 12 courses. In terms of SUNY’s funding there is now funding for an
OER degree program. New OER creation is a priority. This includes writing OER
textbooks but goes beyond this to include faculty teams. For more info contact J.
Spodaro or D. Quarless. Note the deadline of Sept 12th for the funding, see emails in
your inbox and forthcoming. D. Quarless will send an email about the funding for OER
project creation. For a project it could go up to $35,000. This would be a robust project.
D. Quarless reports that the Applied Learning group is working on campus with a
number of members. If you are interested in having a course tagged for applied learning
please connect with the Applied Learning group. Last year’s AL group included Minna
Barrett (SAS), Madelaine Crocitto (SOB) and Blidi Stemm (SOE). There will be a faculty
committee put together (ad-hoc) for applied learning. For this year 165 course sections
carried AL tags.
D. Quarless reports that the online course evaluation system had some problems. The
new system will be Blue. There is an implementation team to deal with the IT portion so
that Blue will be online for fall course evaluations.
D. Quarless reports that the micro-credential task force has been meeting and they will
report soon to the faculty senate.
D. Quarless introduces the new VP for Institutional Assessment J. Heller.
J. Heller introduces the new Associate Provost D. Quarless.
J. Heller reports on enrollments. If you want to receive the daily registration reports
please contact J. Heller. OW hit the milestone of 5,001 students. We met the headcount
undergraduate enrollment goal but we did not meet the graduate student goal. We have
exceeded goals for: first-time to college, continuing undergraduates, and FTE (full-time
equivalent). We did not meet the goal for transfer students. Transfers are down SUNY
wide. We continue to add students through the add/drop period. After 3 weeks there is
6

an official count for SUNY funding. We stop enrolling students at the end of add/drop.
Freshman admissions stops in May. M. Livingston comments that we are addressing the
fallout from financial cancellation – it causes chaos in our student’s lives. Y. Nicholson
states that about 170 students are marked as financially cancelled as of 9/6. M. Dolan
asks if the increase above FTE goals, especially in the case of the First Year, is
accompanied by proportionate increase in FY funding such as resources for community
placements, transportation, linked courses? Response was yes, there is accommodation
for additional sections. Faculty comments that continuing and returning has been a
problem but this time it is not a problem. The more we can reduce our reliance on
transfers the better. L. Anker emphasizes that when students are financially cancelled
this is very difficult.
• The first meeting of the senate we should talk about what issues will be coming up this
year. J. D’Ambroise comments that there is a list of acronyms on the faculty senate
website and we will do our best to continue to add to the website with the collaboration
of everyone here.

VIII. New Business
A.

TLRC Annual Report (J. Crocker)
• TRLC report is attached. Please read the report. Parliamentarian notes that Senate
needs to vote to receive annual report from standing committee. Motion to receive
the report is seconded and approved by unanimous consent.

IX.

Call to Senators: Other New Business and Announcements are combined by the Chair
A.

Faculty comments that the word freshman is confusing. We can call students first
year. Students introduce themselves as freshman. Should the women be introducing
themselves this way? In class we discussed this word should not be used. Students
agreed to not use this word or try to eliminate this word. Can we eliminate this word
legally?
B. M. Livingston announces that we should please see the email that our new contract
was overwhelmingly ratified. Our first UUP general meeting is Thursday Sept 27 at
noon in the multipurpose room. See email for further announcements.
C. M. Livingston announces that many are members in good standing, but we ask
members of UUP to re-up by filling out the forms provided. Put the forms in the mail.
The forms are passed around the room. The newsletter is also passed out. Please
email M. Livingston with any questions.
D. M. Livingston will attend the NYC parade tomorrow.
E. J. Crocker announces that TLRC hosts on Sept 21st the new faculty orientation. All can
join us for lunch. Please watch out for the email announcement.
F. J. Crocker announces that CETL (the Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning)
is active and please contact her with questions.
XI.

Adjournment 2:35pm

7

Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)
Annual Report 2017‐2018
Submitted by Jill Crocker
August 14, 2018
I. Membership
The 2017‐2018 TLRC consisted of seven elected/appointed members and two ex‐officio members. On the last meeting of
2016‐2017 (May 2017), Jill Crocker was elected as 2017‐2018 chair. On the first meeting in September 2017, Ashlee Lien was
elected as vice chair, and Ashok Basawapatna was elected as secretary.
Elected & Appointed Members
Ashok Basawapatna
Wen‐Wen (Erica) Chien
Jillian Crocker
Amy Hsu
Ashlee Lien
Joanne Spadaro
Diana Sukhram

SAS
SOB
SAS
SOE
SAS
Library
SOE

Representing

Ex‐Officio Members
Ed Bever
Antonia DiGregorio

Representing
SPS, Distance Learning
Library

This committee membership reflects the 2016 Bylaws change that increased the size of the TLRC from six to seven elected
members, including representation from each of the three schools and the library. We have found this composition to be a
welcome improvement.
II. Activities
During the 2017‐2018 academic year, the TLRC hosted a fall New Faculty Orientation, spring Mini‐Conference, two workshops,
and four roundtables. In addition, we collaborated with the OER Task Force to bring SUNY OER Services to campus for a faculty
info‐session in the fall, and again in the spring for a full day OER Workshop. We co‐sponsored UUP’s annual “Getting to
Tenure” workshop, and converted an under‐utilized website to an easier to access and easier to maintain SUNY OW LibGuide
with a variety of teaching‐related resources (e.g. links to GenEd Learning Objectives, the final exam schedule, etc.)
While in the preceding year TLRC had co‐sponsored Applied Learning Info Sessions (with the Applied Learning Campus Team),
in spring 2018 we were charged (along with representatives from CAP and LEC, a liaison from the Applied Learning Campus
Team and a representative of the FS Executive Committee) with developing a proposal for integrating the responsibility of
tagging and supporting Applied Learning courses into faculty governance (proposal submitted to FS Executive Committee
4/4/18). In addition, TLRC took on the responsibility of serving in an advisory capacity to the newly formed Center for
Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CETL), in partial fulfillment of a 2012 FS Resolution that called for such a center and an
enhanced institutional commitment to teaching excellence (discussed at FS on 2/9/2018). It is our hope that as it becomes
established, CETL (currently coordinated through SAS) can help fulfill the ongoing demand for teaching development
opportunities, as the TLRC’s capacity to do so is limited.
In addition to these activities (also listed below), the chair participated in the two‐day “Global Service Learning Institute” in
Syracuse, NY in June 2017 and the TLRC held a total of eight business meetings (4 per semester), along with regular online
discussions.
III. Reflections and Future Plans
TLRC events were well attended this year, with some especially lively discussions in our roundtable format. We continue to be
committed to providing teaching development opportunities and resources, helping create spaces that foster faculty
connection, and addressing teaching‐related issues as they arise. The TLRC relies heavily on the expertise and participation of
our colleagues to develop successful initiatives, and always welcomes suggestions/volunteers for presenters. We aren’t able to
incorporate every idea into the schedule, but we do maintain a running list of possible topics and presenters. In the meantime,
we look forward to seeing folks at our annual New Faculty Meet & Greet (Friday September 21, 2018)!

TLRC Activities 2017‐2018
Title
New Faculty Orientation

Format
Teaching‐Focused
Orientation,
Resource Info
Session, and
Meet & Greet

Date
9/29/2017

Faculty Presenters
Various (approx. 25)

Collaborators

Did you read the assigned chapter?
Strategies for Supporting OW
Students’ Reading Comprehension

Workshop

10/17/2017

Amy Hsu (SOE)
Elizabeth Morphis (SOE)
Stephanie Schneider (SOE)
Diana Sukhram (SOE)

Faculty Introduction to OER

Info Session

11/2/2017

Re‐Seeing Revision

Workshop

11/9/2017

New & Newish Faculty
Check‐In & Grading Party

Roundtable

12/20/2017

Getting to Tenure and Beyond

Workshop

2/2/2018

Creating Inclusive Classrooms?

Roundtable

2/8/2018

SUNY OER Workshop (full‐day)

Workshop

2/23/2018

Finding a Balance?

Roundtable

3/5/2018

Tom DelGiudice (PEL)
Frank Sanacory (MA)
Lisa Whitten (PY)

What’s in a Grade, Really?

Roundtable

5/3/2018

Jermaine Archer (AS)
Betty Berbari (MA)
Jacob Heller (SY)

The Future(s) of Higher Education

Mini‐Conference

4/6/2018

Various (approx. 20)

BRIDGE Workshop Series

Dialogue Series

Various
(4 workshops)

CETL

Community of Practice
(Topic: Inclusive Classrooms)

Discussion Group

Various
(4 meetings)

CETL

Applied Learning Task Force

Faculty Senate
Charge

Various
(4 meetings +
presentation
to FS)

CAP, LEC,
ALCT, FSEC

Teaching & Learning Resource Page

TLRC LibGuide

n/a

OER Task
Force
Jacqueline Emery (EL)

UUP, ARPT
Danielle Lee (EL)
Kasia Platt (SOB)
Sarah Smith (PH)
OER Task
Force