Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                         Friday, September 25, 2015


Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding),  Minna Barrett
(University Senator), Werner Sbaschnik (Parlamentarian), Kathie Greenberg
(Senator at-Large), Lingxiang Li (Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator
At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Laura Anker (First Year
Experience), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Cary Lange (Accounting), Yu Lei
(MMF), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Blidi Stemn (Childhood
Education), Lauren Foxworth (Exceptional Education), Llana Barber (American
Studies), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages),
Thomas Lilly (PEL), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Laura Limonic (Sociology),
Ryoko Yamamato (TLRC), Jacob Heller (FRR Com.).

Excused Senators: Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large/Biological Studies),
Ana Martinez (Professional).

Senators Absent: Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large Large), Shalei Simms (Univ.
Senator Alternate), Young-Joo Kim (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf
(English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Sarah Smith (Public Health), Robert Gero
(Visual Arts), Chris Hobson (ARPT Comm.), Frank Sanacory (CAP Committee),
Zenaida Madurka (HLCC).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Dr. Wayne Edwards (VP Student
Affairs), Jisan Zhu (Dean, SOB), Barbara Hillary (Dean, SAS).

Visitors Present: Anthony Barbera (Assistant VP Academic Affairs/SOB),
Maureen Dolan (Math/CIS), Lorenz Neuwirth (Psychology), Yumi Nicholson
(Advising), Jerilyn Marinan (Director of Career Planning & Development),
Caroline Sawyer (H&P), Amanda Shigihara (Sociology).


   I. Call to Order: 12:35 pm



  II. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report

    ● Dr. Patrick O’Sullivan and Dr. Calvin Butts are attending a meeting
      in Saratoga and for that reason are not here today.
    ● Message from Dr. O'Sullivan: This semester we are 200 students short
      in enrollment, and if we don't make up for the shortfall by the
      spring, the consequence is less money from the state next year. So we
      will focus on retention this year.
    ● The recommendation to purchase Scranton machine/software was
      approved by Dr. O’Sullivan. We hope the system will be operational by
      the Spring semester.
    ● 2.0 Dorm Policy Resolution was forwarded to the President. The
      President agreed to allow freshmen and new transfer students to remain
      in the dorms if their GPA drops below 2.0 for one more semester. He
      also wants an early warning system be implemented to provide these
      students with a necessary counseling and academic support.
    ● Dr. Laura Anker, Director of First Year Experience, worked in
      consultation with the Senate Executive Committee to organize a formal
      process for early detection and remediation. The proposed model is
      currently in operation.
    ● A RABPC (Resource, Allocation, and Budget Planning Committee)
      meeting was held last week. The role of this committee was to allow
      faculty to have input on how funds on campus were distributed.
      Unfortunately, some of the faculty on RABPC are not attending its
      meetings. Kate Velsor asked whether the Senate should replace these
      members. Previous Middle States review recommended that the school
      should be able to demonstrate that faculty have some involvement in
      resource allocation.
    ● SUNY Excels matrix, a performance matrix that highlights categories
      the College excels in and hopes to receive financial support for from
      SUNY. Dr. O’Sullivan has an October deadline to submit to SUNY. Some
      associated documents, such as a template for the College to follow,
      are attached to the agenda. Some faculty expressed concern or
      disappointment that the strengths of the College, such as diversity,
      social justice, sustainability were not reflected in the document
      distributed.

III.  President’s Report

      Excused.

IV.   Provost’s Report

      Excused

V.    Old Business

Election/Vote for the Executive Committee.

    ● Three members from the Faculty Senate were nominated with unanimous
      acceptance at the last meeting held on September 11 to fill vacant
      positions in the Executive Committee and all accepted the nomination.
      Tom Lilly: Vice Chair
      Yogesh More: Secretary/Treasurer
      Kathy Greenberg: Senator at Large
      Since there was only one nominee for each position, the Faculty Senate
      Chair approved them at this meeting.


2014-2015 Faculty Judicial Committee Report (Yogesh More)

    ● The Committee held 35 Judicial Hearings this year. The more frequent
      charges where unauthorized entry, drugs and alcohol, disorder of
      conduct, and acting dishonestly.
    ● There are 20 faculty members serving on the committee and most of
      them served about one or two times each semester.
    ● Dr. Wayne Edwards introduced the new Dean of Students Dr. Omar
      Estrada Torres who shared some more information about the judicial
      process:
         ● There are specifically two outcomes regarding sexual
           misconduct if the student is found responsible: suspension or
           expulsion.
         ● The victim is the one who chooses to pursue the complaint to
           the local law enforcement; to the college processes; pursue
           both, or neither.
         ● If a student is suspended or expelled, that would be reflected
           in the transcript. This student could be re-enrolled later, and
           once he is accepted, that notation will be removed.


Resolution on Salary Compression (Jacob Heller)

    ● This resolution was presented at the faculty meeting on September
      11. It addresses inequities on the basis of salary
      compression/inversion. For example there are people who was hired
      between the last 3 years who earn more than others who have been hired
      more than 20 years ago inside the same department.
    ● The administration has not distributed money it has available for
      salary adjustments because of legal concerns - if the administration
      were to restructure some salaries without an established policy
      dictating who should be awarded, then faculty who are left out of the
      increases may successfully sue the administration.
    ● This is an attempt to bring faculty into the process to analyze the
      criteria in evaluating professors, to make sure there is a fair
      evaluation of faculty and to have the administration doing what they
      say they want to do about salary compression. It won’t fix all the
      salary problems. Task Force will have to report the recommendations to
      the faculty and faculty will have to approve it. The purpose to
      include and implicate faculty in the creation of those criteria was to
      bring the entire faculty into the acceptance of the Task Force when
      they approve it.
    ● This is a restructuring of salaries, not a raise increase. This
      resolution is solely concerned with salary adjustment due to
      compression/inversion, not merit based increases.

Motion was made to vote on the resolution and it was seconded. The
resolution passed with 26 acceptances, 0 against and no abstention.

VI.      New Business


Dr. Wayne Edwards, Vice President for Academic Affairs.
Tobacco-free Campus.
    ● The Tobacco-free campus program will take effect in January.
    ● We selected five to six areas on campus as designated smoking areas.
      Now we are in the process of placing signs there. We have partnership
      with State Tobacco Coalition of Nassau. They are going to help us to
      minimize our cost by providing signs and supplying us with promotions.


    ● We are not going to try to intimidate people. We will arrange a
      group that will be handling cards or pamphlets informing that smoking
      is not allowed on the campus except in the designated areas.
    ● We also have a cessation program which includes faculty, staff and
      students.

Career services (Jerilyn Marinan, Director of Career, Planning and
Development)

    ● We are not a placement office. Our job is to help students to become
      more marketable so they will be able to represent themselves once they
      leave the college.
    ● Contact us if you would like to have a career professional coming to
      your class, or to have a resume workshop at a senior seminar you are
      teaching.
    ● We will be hosting this month an open house in our office. We are
      also hosting a Career in Government/Public Services on a workshop in
      October 6. A panel on careers in health care will be held in November
      17.

VII.     Announcements


    ● TLRC will host a Google Apps vs. Microsoft Office 365 Information &
      discussion Forum on Friday, October 9 from 10:00 am to Noon in NAB
      1100.
      This Committee will also host a Roundtable Series beginning in
      October.


    ● Panther Pride Week will begin next Tuesday.


    ● The Full Faculty Senate Meeting will held on October 9.


    ● Nate Powell, a graphic novelist, will present his memoirs about the
      civil rights activist John Lewis at SUNY Old Westbury on Tuesday,
      October 6, 2015 at 7:00 p.m.​ ​in the Student Union Multipurpose Rooms.


    ● A LGBT forum will be held on campus on November 6.


    ● A Tutor Program, including any subject under School of Arts and
      Sciences, was recently created. You can contact Dr. Christina Notaro
      for information.

 III. Adjournment at 2:23pm, September 25, 2015.