MEMORANDUM

TO:

Members of the Board of Trustees

April 23, 2002

FROM:

Robert L. King

SUBJECT:

Master Plan Amendment for State University College at Old
Westbury

| recommend that the Board of Trustees adopt the following resolution:
Resolved that the State University of New York Master Plan be, and

hereby is, amended to authorize the State University College at Old
Westbury to offer instruction leading to the Master of Science
degree in Accounting in the discipline area of Business; and, be it
further
Resolved

that the

Chancellor

be,

and

hereby

is, authorized

to

transmit this amendment to the Board of Regents and the Governor
for incorporation in the State University Master Plan.
Background

Approval of this resolution will authorize the State University College at Old
Westbury to offer a Master of Science degree in Accounting, subject to the
approval of the Board of Regents. A Master Plan amendment is necessary as the
curriculum

represents the College’s first program

change in institutional mission.

at the graduate

level and

a

In 1964, the State University Board of Trustees established a new college in arts

and science in Nassau County which, according to the Master Plan, would serve
residential as well as commuter students in a region “characterized by rapid
population growth, by the tradition of sending an unusually large percentage of its

youth to college, and
These same factors,
determining whether
It is fitting, therefore,

by the presence of a high proportion of professional people.”
according to the Plan, would be taken into consideration in
additional graduate programs would be needed in the region.
that the inaugural graduate program for the College at Old

Westbury be a Master of Science degree in Accounting, designed principally to

D.

serve a part-time, working clientele in an increasingly evolving, high-demand
profession,

and

built

upon

the

undergraduate program in the field.

demonstrated

expertise

of

the

College’s

The College is proposing a vigorous yet flexible course of study that includes a 36credit hour track for accounting graduates and a 58-credit hour track for nonaccounting, business or liberal arts and science graduates. The design of the
curriculum

incorporates

issues

critical

to

today’s

professional

practice

of

accounting, including the impact of information technology and globalization of
markets, and a portfolio of skills in assurance services, financial planning, and
information systems. The College projects a first-year enrollment of 43 (30 parttime) with a fifth year enrollment of 84 (over 60 part-time). The College at Old
Westbury is committed to achieving accreditation of the undergraduate and
graduate programs by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
International (AACSB) in seven years, requiring a further investment in the

curriculum that includes four additional doctorally-qualified faculty with research
experience,
capital and equipment expenditures,
and
library resource
development. A team of two external reviewers evaluated the proposed program

and recognized the program potential particularly given the College’s exemplary
record in pass rates on CPA exams and on the faculty hiring plans.

The New York State Department of Labor's Occupational Outlook for Long Island

(Nassau and Suffolk Counties) for 1998-2008 projects over 2,000 openings for

accountants and auditors annually; for New York City the projection is over 12,000
annual openings. Driving the need for a master’s degrees in accounting is the

change in New York State Regulations related to public accountancy. Beginning in

2009,

an

individual

seeking

New

York

State

licensure

as a certified

public

accountant must have completed an approved 150-credit hour program, such as
the College is proposing. It is anticipated that the need for a public access
graduate degree program will drive and sustain the College’s planned enrollment

in the curriculum. Sixty
from the College’s own
about 85-90% of which
proposed program and

percent of the program enrollment is expected to derive
graduates, particularly from among the business majors,
are transfers from neighboring community colleges. The
the change in mission for the College at Old Westbury

complements expertise at sister State University institutions. There are no similar

programs at the State University College of Technology at Farmingdale or at the
State University of New York at Stony Brook.

The Master of Science degree in Accounting is consistent with the history and

evolution of the College at Old Westbury in serving the educational and economic
needs of the Nassau and Suffolk Counties. The proposed program is also fully

consistent with the College’s Mission Review Memorandum

signed in December 2000.

of Understanding