SUNY College at Old Westbury
Proposal to Re-Establish the Campus Green Committee
Prepared by Dr. Maureen Dolan (Past-Chair, SUNY Sustainability Committee)
Submitted to Dr. Calvin O. Butts, III, President, March 26, 2019
Green Committee Proposal accepted Fall 2019

Proposed CHARGE / PURPOSE:
Background: The fundamental rationale for a Green Committee on each SUNY campus was established
through the Report of the SUNY Energy Task Force (June 2007) and subsequent enactment of the University
Energy and Sustainability Policy by the SUNY Board of Trustees, November 2007. In addition to establishing
goals and mandates for conservation, renewable energy, reductions in greenhouse gases, and requirements for
green purchasing, buildings and operations (including LEED Silver as minimum rating for new construction),
the Policy also called for a Sustainability Officer on each campus, and for transformational opportunities in
green campus initiatives (including research, curriculum, student engagement, and public/private partnerships).
More recently, Chancellor Johnson commissioned the development of a “Framework for a More Sustainable
SUNY”, in alignment with New York State goals related to renewable energy, reduced carbon emissions, green
buildings and operations, and responsive to global concerns regarding climate change, carbon footprint,
recycling and waste stream, food and water, air quality and social equity. In her first State of the University
Address (January 2018), the Chancellor notably called for zero-net energy and zero-net emissions in new
SUNY buildings, and established Sustainability as one of four pillars of SUNY Excellence moving forward.
The Campus Green Committee will:


Function in accordance with University Energy and Sustainability Policy, and in support of SUNY and
State goals related to energy, the environment and climate action planning.



Serve to advance Old Westbury as a green campus, in accordance with the college’s Strategic Plan
2018-2023, as described in goals and strategies spanning student success, academic excellence,
institutional effectiveness and revenue enhancement.



Explore best practices and models for campus sustainability in higher education, and be informed by
past initiatives undertaken by the college’s ad hoc Campus Green Committee (2009-2010).



Organize committee activities through working groups to include (but not be limited to) areas such as:
energy and emissions, carbon footprint, transportation, recycling and waste reduction, green materials,
food sourcing, water conservation, environmental stewardship.



Raise awareness among campus constituencies of sustainability issues that call for individual and/or
collective responsibility, such as personal behavior and/or institutional practices related to energy use,
water use, personal and campus vehicles, technology usage, recycling habits, etc.



Explore, when appropriate, opportunities for innovative projects, public/private partnerships and/or
external funding for renewable energy or green campus initiatives aligned with the college’s Mission
and Strategic Plan (e.g., in support of environmental stewardship, sustainability and social justice).



Provide opportunities, consistent with past practice and models in higher education, for student research,
engagement and service-learning (e.g., green activities involving the Honors College, First-Year/CALL,
independent study, work-study, etc.)



Provide periodic updates to the President, the Faculty and other interested parties, and present an annual
report to include a summary of committee activities, studies, analyses, recommendations and outlook.
GreenComm-proposedChargePurpose-md-032619