Procedural Statement from the Parliamentarian:
Special Election for Faculty Senate Chair

Dear Senators (cc: Faculty),
The Faculty Senate needs to elect a Chair for the Spring 2018 semester. To deal with this urgent
matter, a Special Order of Business is scheduled for the February 9th Meeting of Faculty Senate.
To facilitate the Special Election, the Senate will be asked to vote on waiver of section of Bylaws on
Officers of the Senate, normal election cycle and term length (Article V, sections D-E).
When the Pro-Tem Chair of the Senate, Andy Mattson, was elected at the October 6th Meeting, it was
understood that the term of office was one semester. As previously reported to the faculty (in
procedural statements circulated for Senate meetings of 9/29 and 10/6), the Pro-Tem Chair will “serve
until January 2018, when the Faculty Senate Chair elected for 2017-2018 will return from personal
leave”. However, as Senators and faculty were informed by Kathie Greenberg in her January 18th
message, she was unable to resume her duties as 2017-2018 elected chair, and was stepping down
because of personal circumstances.
As Parliamentarian, I must convey the urgency of the current situation. The office of the Pro-Tem
Chair will expire when the Faculty Senate convenes for its first meeting of the Spring semester.
Please carefully review the options described below. Your immediate attention is required. As
Senators, your action is also requested below under the Call for Nominations.

OPTIONS for Special Election of Faculty Senate Chair:
1) In the interest of continuity in governance, the Senate decides (per vote on above-mentioned
Bylaws waiver) to hold early election for the 2018-2019 Chair, with the understanding that
the newly elected Chair would serve for an extended term totaling three (3) semesters:
Spring 2018 through Spring 2019. (There is precedent for such an election when, upon the
sudden resignation of Senate Chair, a new chair was elected to serve an extended term from
Spring 2000 through Spring 2001.)
2) If no nominations for term length of 3 semesters are received by the February 9th meeting,
then nominations for Pro-Tem Chair for the Spring 2018 semester only will be solicited.

Given the urgent need to elect Senate leadership, and in anticipation of nominations that will be
received by email or from the floor of the Senate, notification is hereby provided that nominations
are expected to close and election is expected to occur at the February 9th meeting.

Call for NOMINATIONS for Special Election of Faculty Senate Chair for the
TERM LENGTH of 3 SEMESTERS:


Any full-time faculty voting member of the Senate is eligible to be nominated (or to selfnominate) to serve as Senate Chair. A nominee must be a sitting member of 2017-2018 Senate,
as identified on Faculty Senate Sign-Up Sheet.



As longstanding practice, tenured full-time faculty have served as Faculty Senate Chair.
Faculty Bylaws, however, do not preclude non-tenured full-time faculty from serving as
Faculty Senate Chair. Many Senators strongly believe that non-tenured faculty are ill-advised
to take on the challenges and workload of chairing the Senate, even on Pro-Tem basis. Some
Senators believe such a choice should be up to individuals and departments.



Although Chairs of Standing Committees are precluded from concurrent service as Faculty
Senate Chair (under Bylaws V, section G), current chairs of standing committees may be
nominated for Senate Chair position provided that, if elected, they relinquish the chair of
standing committee while serving as Pro-Tem Chair or 2018-2019 Senate Chair.

Nominations or Self-Nominations for the Special Election of Faculty Senate Chair
should be submitted to Jennie D’Ambroise, Faculty Senate Secretary/Treasurer at email:
dambroisej@oldwestbury.edu no later than Thursday, February 8, 2018 at 4:00pm.
Any questions regarding the above may be sent to FS Secretary/Treasurer, Jennie D’Ambroise, at
damroisej@oldwestbury.edu or to the Parliamentarian at 74601.1372@compuserve.com

Your consideration is much appreciated. See you at Senate.
Maureen

-------------------------------------Dr. Maureen Dolan
Mathematics/CIS Department
SUNY College at Old Westbury
Parliamentarian, Faculty Senate
Quantitative Reasoning & Interconnected Learning (QRIL): Coordinator
NY Coalition for Sustainability in Higher Education: Regional Representative for Long Island Region
Email: 74601.1372@compuserve.com