Charge, Composition and Terms:

 the Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, and Review      
 Committee of SUNY Old Westbury

Approved by the SPAAR Task Force, December 17, 2018

Charge

The Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, and Review (SPAAR) Committee is the campus-wide advisory body responsible for monitoring and providing transparency regarding the College’s progress in implementing its Strategic Plan (hereafter “the Plan”) and associated budgeting activities. Its purpose is to advance the College’s mission and strategic goals while monitoring as appropriate strategic activities and investments pursued by the College.

The SPAAR Committee:

Adheres to Middle States Commission on Higher Education Standard VI’s requirement that: “The institution’s planning processes, resources, and structures are aligned with each other and are sufficient to fulfill its mission and goals, to continuously assess and improve its programs and services, and to respond effectively to opportunities and challenges.”

Creates and continuously improves a plan of work to conduct its review of the implementation of the goals and outcomes of the Plan.

Uses the best available evidence and data in its efforts to unite strategic and budget planning, and may therefore request from campus offices such information as it may require.

Combines, in consultation with campus stakeholders, strategic and budget planning by making recommendations related to existing, new, or revised strategic priorities.

Evaluates progress of Plan implementation beginning with the benchmarks and metrics included in ongoing assessment reports by academic and operational departments/units and developing additional benchmarks/metrics as needed.

Meets at least twice each semester (Fall and Spring).

Creates regular opportunities for campus-wide discussion of findings, and incorporates feedback into its recommendations. 

Produces interim reports on key strategic issues and recommends to the campus’ bodies of governance (i.e. the President, Cabinet, College Council, Faculty Senate, SGA) revisions of the Committee’s function, as appropriate.

Submits by June 15 of each year a written progress report to the campus’ bodies of governance. In guiding the implementation and adjustment of the Strategic Plan, the SPAAR Committee exemplifies a shared-governance approach to continuous improvement in College decision-making. As such, the SPAAR Committee must:

Consider the financial implications of its recommendations, with attention to both the local (campus) and the wider (state) budget context. 

Comply with the College’s confidentiality and conflict-of-interest policies.

Follow standard parliamentary procedures.



Structure and Composition of the SPAAR Committee

Co-chaired by a faculty member and a representative of the College’s administration/staff, the SPAAR Committee will be reflective of the campus it serves with a composition that includes 19 students, staff, faculty and administration.  Membership is as follows:

Three members of the faculty representing the School of Arts and Sciences

One member of the faculty representing the School of Business

One member of the faculty representing the School of Education

One member of the faculty representing the Library 

The Chair of the Faculty Senate ex officio

Provost & Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs ex officio

Senior Vice President for Business & Finance & Chief Financial Officer ex officio

Vice President for Student Affairs ex officio

Vice President for Enrollment Services ex officio

Vice President for Institutional Advancement ex officio

Vice President for Communications ex officio

Assistant to the President for Administration ex officio 

CSEA President ex officio

UUP Vice President for Professionals ex officio

SGA President or designee ex officio 

RHA President or designee ex officio

SGA Campus Life Senator who is a commuter student and not the SGA President 

All members will have voting rights.




Criteria and Process for Selection of Members and Membership Term

Members will come to the committee via the following processes:

Administration/staff: Members of the President’s Cabinet serve ex officio as outlined in the Structure and Composition section, as do the president of the local CSEA chapter and the vice president for professionals of UUP.

Faculty: Election of faculty members to the committee will require revisions to the Faculty Bylaws.  Therefore, at initiation of the committee, faculty members will be appointed by the College President from a pool of candidates to be provided by the Faculty Senate. As terms of those members end, subsequent faculty joining the committee will be determined by the annual Senate committee election process as stated in the revised Bylaws.

Students: The SGA and RHA presidents serve ex officio but can appoint designees to serve in their places for the academic year. One SGA Campus Life Senator, who must be a commuter student, will be elected/appointed annually by SGA. 

Co-Chairs will be named via the following processes:

Administration/staff Co-Chair: By appointment of the College President. 

Faculty Co-Chair: At the initiation of the Committee, the Faculty Senate Chair will serve as co-chair until such time as the revision to the Faculty Bylaws can be completed. Following the Bylaws revision, a faculty co-chair will be elected by and from those faculty members serving on the committee. 

Each member’s tenure on the committee will vary depending on their role on campus:

Administration/staff:  Members of the President’s Cabinet serve ex officio as outlined, as do the President of the local CSEA chapter, and the Vice President for Professionals of UUP. 

Faculty: The Chair of the Faculty Senate serves ex officio. The remaining six members appointed prior to revision of the Faculty Bylaws will serve as follows:

Two members until the earliest point a term can begin following an election held in compliance with revised Bylaws 

Two members until one year later than the initial election 

Two members until two years later than the initial election 

At least three elected faculty members must hold tenure. When elected, faculty members will each serve three-year terms.

Students: The SGA and RHA presidents serve ex officio. A Campus Life Senator will be elected/appointed each year. Student designees if present serve one-year terms. 

1