SUNY University Faculty Plenary
                              SUNY Farmingdale
                             January 22-24, 2015
I. Executive Committee Report - Gwen Kay, Vice President/Secretary
 -  The executive committee discussed the Governor’s State of the State
   address and his expectation that every  SUNY student will be required to
   engage in experiential learning before they graduate.
 -   A reminder about the Undergraduate Research conference at Brockport on
   April 10 and the executive committee is looking into providing funding
   for that program. The undergraduate research committee will look into
   funding the EC of the UFS. .
 -   Tim Gerken will head a statewide ad-hoc committee on LGBTQ affairs in
   SUNY , so Senators/CGL’s should send nominees to Tim.
 -  A reminder about UFS awards-nominations for outstanding service (Chugh
   Award), please send names to Carol Donato by end of February.
 - Proposed SUNY budget asked for $50M for “Master Innovators”, $50M for
   collective impact (SUNY Excels), and $30M via loans to campuses for
   innovative teaching technology and infrastructure (Open SUNY). The budget
   discussion in EC concerned endorsing the SUNY budget offerings. The
   decision was that the EC might not need to consider endorsement yearly,
   but that this year the Chancellor’s budget would be endorsed to add
   support to “encourage” Governor  to follow through on his stated
   allocations.
A later discussion about Budget (SUNY ask and Governor’s proposed) raised a
number of issues about how SUNY EXCELS will be enforced via withholding
funds to campuses that don’t submit or if plans are rejected by the BOT,
how success will be determined over five years and how funding allocations
will be determined for each campus. Concerns were also raised about the
Governor’s curricular edict without faculty shared governance input of any
kind with regard to requirement for experiential learning for every student
graduating from SUNY and CUNY. Approaches to expressing this concern were
discouraged, later in the Plenary during sector questions to the Chancellor
(refer to Sector Questions and Chancellor’s responses).
II. Introduction and Discussion of Resolutions
Incentives/Awards for Graduate Students in STEM and to encourage the
extension of STEM Skills across the graduate curriculum.
      Resolution 1: see below  ( SUNY COW Faculty Senate should consider
      support of this UFS resolution)

      Incentives to Support the Submission of STEM Graduate Research Grant
      Applications

      Resolution 2: see below (SUNY COW Faculty Senate should consider
      support of this UFS resolution)
      Resolution in support of the General Assembly of the Student Assembly
      of the State University of New York’s 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success
      resolution 1415-36
III. Report from the Nominations Committee – Renata Barneva, Chair
Senators in last years of their first or second terms, meet at winter
meeting and seek nominations for officers positions. Nominations to Carol
and Renata by March 21st—statement of intent and CV from candidates for
distribution to voting members.
IV. Comprehensive Sector Session

Formulating questions for Chancellor – instructed to include the concept
key phrase is “cradle to career”.
Questions:
1) Our sector excels in experiential learning and is poised to offer these
opportunities to our students. Given the stated goal of and applied
learning/internship opportunity for every student. How do you see
operationalizing this goal? What is your definition of meaningful applied
learning/internship experiences?
2) What resources will SUNY system provide to the campuses to reach the
goal of meaningful experiences? Specifically, there are costs in terms of
student and faculty time and student credit?
3) Would you or a representative be willing to meet with representatives of
the university colleges to discuss implementation and support of this goal?
Some campuses, particularly rural ones, have constraints on how this can be
implemented?
4) The governor and chancellor have essentially imposed a graduation
requirement on the faculty. This is a curricular issue that was not
discussed through faculty governance?
Reports/Campus concerns
Buffalo State-New president and new provost next year. Intellectual
foundations introduced and implementation underway, diversity requirement.
Issue is biggest freshmen class and trouble with housing, yet reduced
overall enrollment, decline in Dept. of Ed.  Department of Communications
has 89% adjuncts and is the fastest growing major in the college with 900
majors.
Fredonia-still working on General Education, close to approval—similar to
what they have currently. Awards for experiential learning.  Significant
drop in enrollment big concern, decrease of 3.5% this year. General concern
in Western NY.
Potsdam-some decline in enrollment, in Dept. of Ed, others stable. Budget
crises—cut 20 positions last year (faculty and staff).  Hiring freeze and
all sabbaticals denied, voluntary separation plan (early retirement
incentive). Gen Ed finished last year-went down to 32 credits, a lot of the
former Gen Ed courses were moved to graduation requirements and tied to
majors. Bundled some attributes to accomplish the task.
New Paltz-issue with bar closing times (closes later in New Paltz, so
students from all over go there after other bars close). Ongoing troubles
with housing-buying land from local apple grower for housing, but township
is fighting it.  GE similar experience, liberal education committee had an
idea that was shot down, so they went back to what they have which already
meets the required standards. Sabbatical applications up, so the number of
leaves granted dropped. Staff also votes at faculty meetings, meetings are
late Friday afternoons, so often more staff ends up voting than faculty.
How do other campuses handle this? Advice is to go to the Board of Trustees
policies to define members of senate (i.e. Teaching Faculty, Non Teaching
Faculty, etc.).  Different campuses explained their methodology for
inclusion.
Plattsburgh-Enrollments an issue, maintaining but doing so by lowering
selectivity and number of transfers is down. Working on Gen Ed for several
years, vote took place in fall and changes were voted down. Even a one-
semester sabbatical is half pay (started 4 years ago), so the number of
sabbatical requests is down. Issue of faculty governance involvement with
administrative searches. It is in the bylaws to include faculty, but
Administration has not been consulting with governance when forming the
committees.
Old Westbury-Issue with high proportion of adjuncts, particularly in high
demand majors. Governance issues – Use of Task Force rather than shared
governance model. Every first year student engaged in service learning and
many majors with applied, experiential and service learning models in
various majors. First-year program and college-wide experiential/service
learning yield federal recognition for the past seven years.  Enrollment
relatively stable, loss in TE and low enrollments in some graduate
programs. Schedule change from 100-minute course sessions (4 credit
courses) to 90 minutes. Discussion ensued about assignment of Carnegie Unit
to 90-minute session for a 4-credit course across a semester. Gen Ed,
second English course and math are graduation requirements. Dual
designation to cover competencies. Yes, we have a Diversity General
Education requirement. Full year-half pay sabbaticals typically granted.
Ongoing issues with faculty engagement in governance responsibilities and
impact of adjunct employment on pool.
Oswego-interested in governance issues, i.e. difficulty meeting a quorum
making it sometime difficult to make changes.  Push towards online and
hybrid classes with no process in place for oversight. How are other
campuses handling engagement?  Concern about the fact that there is no
standard (federal model) family leave policy including maternity and
paternity leave across SUNY units. UFS might be willing to address UUP,
since leave is a function of terms and conditions of employment. Can we
address a resolution to the Union?
Oneonta-settling in to restructuring from three to five schools with
external deans in all five schools. Creating new lines and filling vacant
positions (retirements), most sabbatical requests approved as far as that
Senator understood. Gen Ed—in the fall voted to accept 7/10/30 and included
at least another writing requirement for graduation. Working on adding
other graduation requirements to address former Gen Ed requirements. Issues
with how to implement the new Gen Ed in the fall and maintain the old Gen
Ed for other students in DegreeWorks. How is that going across the campus
units?
Purchase-Governance an issue, Gen Ed not an issue, revised several years
ago to 7/10/30. Enrollments good, sabbaticals granted (they have a junior
sabbatical program), lots of construction.
Empire State College-fundamental restructuring, still have 35 locations in
the state. A new president and provost with business model approach are now
in leadership. Empire’s governance representation has always been
geographical via its seven regional centers, but regional centers are being
reduced to 3 hubs changing how the governance structure is set up. There is
anxiety about faculty loosing authority over design and delivery and in
reaching its mission target population. Older faculty committed to staying
in one-one and face-face mentoring format while newer and younger faculty
are more willing to step away from Empire’s model. President and Provost
appear to want a more corporate and online model.
Geneseo-hiring a new President, anticipate some changes in top
administration. Convert course requirements to competency requirements to
meet Gen Ed requirements of the BOT. Biology Dept. very high number of
majors, but any changes to enrollment there will wait until new President.
The Biology department has a “pre-major”.  To keep selectivity higher have
gone to policy of inviting less prepared students who apply to the college
to Study Abroad programs prior to matriculation to the college but,
participation in such a course does not guarantee admission in the January
enrollment drive.
Brockport-Presidential search committee includes faculty, professional
staff and students (one grad and one undergrad). Two buildings renovated
recently. Graduate enrollments have gone down (mostly due to Ed
applications). No sabbaticals denied.
V. Educational Pipeline Report - Johanna Duncan-Poitier, Senior Vice
Chancellor for Community Colleges and the Education Pipeline
Emphasis on the Education Pipeline is to have SUNY be central to the
increase of high school preparedness to increase retention and graduation
rates from SUNY campuses. Duncan-Poitier covered three areas:
1). update on early college high schools -  Early college high schools—four
years ago SUNY started smart scholars, in 20 schools sponsored by SUNY.
Farmingdale is one of the stars for early college high school. 98% of
students in these schools are on track for graduation without the need for
remediation and they graduate with college credits in high school. Ptech
(pathways to technology) is in 27 schools. This is a six-year model.
Students start out as ninth grade students and end up with an Associates
Degree. Looking for more funding this year to expand to more schools across
the state.
2). accelerated math model – application of QuantWays and StatWays increase
passing rate 2X and 3X respectively and in half the time of traditional
approaches to teaching these contents. Accelerated math model-about one
third of the community colleges have twice the success rate of other
models. SUNY Faculty members went to California to see how it worked in
their system. The decision to introduce this model was made by faculty.
Texas and California have the accelerated math model in their four-year
schools. Right now a team of math faculty in California will receive
training from Carnegie Foundation, supported by a learning community.
3). professional development with teacher education (Common Core, teacher
preparation) -Professional Development with teacher education-importance of
Common Core to Teacher Education faculty. Two years ago SED received “race
to the top” money and state moving forward with Common Core. Received funds
to provide faculty driven professional development in Common Core
standards, assessment and clinical teacher education. Over time brought
inter-disciplinary faculty to the table, because more faculty need to be
included as Common Core is challenging.  Orientation for faculty to be
aware of what is going to be different with students taught in this model.
Impacts an “end-point” student.  Centers for Innovation in Education at
Cortland, New Paltz, Buff State and UAlbany. These four campuses are
currently the Hubs of information for Common Core. Chancellor would like to
have centers at every campus. There are seven “Clinical Teacher Preparation
 Centers” (clinically rich model) at SUNY colleges. And, SUNY created an
urban/rural teacher core. Albany City has K-12 partners with faculty at
Albany.  (Tie-in with Governor’s Teacher Assessment Plans?)
VI. Elsevier and Open Source Publishing - Carey Hatch, Associate Provost
Library and Information Services

This new contract is SUNY’s  3rd 5-year agreement.  What is the impact that
this has on our libraries and services ,, since the costs are very
considerable and the packages included access to resources we don’t use, as
well as those central to our teaching? Hatch is hoping the reality of what
SUNY Faces in procuring sources will lead to meaningful conversation about
what scholarly publication is and what it will look like in the future.
2014 cost of Science Direct is just under  $8Mto which all SUNY Campuses
will have to contribute. Negotiations were very hard fought and SUNY
pressed hard, but we didn’t get a break on costs. We ended up a bit more
access.. This provides access not only to Science Direct, but also to open
source publishing. As of Jan 1st, every campus should have access to all of
SCOUPUS. Over the next 5 years the costs will increase to $8.1-$9.4
million/year.

Cost sharing business model-University centers 74.5%.  Most will see
significant increases over the next year or two and then it should flatten
out.  SUNY doesn’t have money to continue with previous level of
commitment, but $600K annually and then $2.5 mil over 5 years.  Some
libraries relinquished library staff lines and other purchases will suffer.
Whole scholarly publishing model is unsustainable-Need to consider open
access-reinforced by tenure and promotion policies. Library funding is
inadequate to support current expectations and this is takes it beyond a
library issue to the importance of supporting the needs of higher education
and corporatization of learning resources.
VII. Carlos Medina, Chief Diversity Officer and Senior Associate Vice
Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Conference in November 2014, addressed diversity and was co-sponsored by
the University Faculty Senate. Almost 400 people in attendance. There is a
Taskforce on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion created last year and one
initiative was to have a Chief Diversity Officer at every institution.
Taskforce focusing on undergraduate and graduate recruitment/retention,
recruitment and retention of faculty and staff, campus environment, and
structure and relationships relative to diversity officers and offices.
SUNY EXCELS has a performance measure for diversity and access.  A UFS
Senator challenged the SUNY EXCELS Model, explaining that Graduation Rates,
Time to Graduation, Lack of Financial support and increased tuition and
costs to students undermines expansion of diversity goals and access to
socio-economically fragile NYS students and those in the less well funded
and more challenged end of the educational pipeline who are less able to be
competitively prepared for success via the same time frames, especially if
these students are working full/part time while attending college, in order
to pay for the education they receive.
SUNY COW was publically acknowledged as the most diverse in its student,
faculty and staff composition of any SUNY Campus.
VIII. Budget Report - Eileen G. McLouglin, Vice Chancellor for Finance and
Chief Financial Officer
A. SUNY Budget
NY-SUNY 2020. Before 2020 plans we had erratic tuition increases with
periods of change and dramatic increases. We currently employ a rational
tuition model at the rate of $300 a year. 2015/2016 is the final  year of
this RTP, so advocating for the continuation of rational tuition will be
critical. State has instituted a 2% rule (no increases beyond that and the
state is trying to disallow overspending at a limit of 2%).  SUNY is at
1.6% annual growth rate, primarily through our own activities and not a
result of what the state allocates to SUNY.
NY State financial surplus due to return from lawsuits in the amount of
$4.8B. Governor’s State of the State included SUNY-wide initiatives. Cuomo
is advocating for 25% of resident students to be supported by state student
aid, to increase staff and faculty (270 new lines) and to develop 100 new
degree programs in “high need” contents over the next five years.
Requested, state operating funds@$131M for mandated contractual salary
increases, $155M in spending authority (includes $19.2M for last year’s
funding shortfall), $50M for a “Master Innovators recruiting/salary support
effort for exceptional leaders in their fields, $50M in “collective
impact”, $30M loan to support Open SUNY – which went unfunded last year,
and $2M in SUNY System operating support.
B. Executive (Governor’s) Budget News: performance improvement plans (10%)
of state financial support will be held back until campus plans are
approved (could be as much as $50-60M from all campuses).  Being embedded
now is just what UFS feared, that state funding would be withheld for a
lack of performance improvement.  There will be a share of an additional
$18M in state funding to address instituting SUNY EXCELS.

- SUNY Excels Plan requires that 10 percent of annual direct State support
be withheld from any campus without an on-time approved plan.  Such plans
will serve as the basis for performance funding allocations in future years
and shall include but not be limited to improving access, completion,
academic growth, post-graduation success, research, and community
engagement. There are still 5 Categories, narrowed to 17 specific
indicators from 200. Schools can pick and choose the indicators that best
address their needs and particular missions, including what they are doing
well and where they project improvement in areas that would strengthen
their performance. The development of such plans will be required to
include faculty governance at all levels, and elected faculty
representatives, directly.  Provost urges Administrators to work through
official shared governance routes to design and to approve the plans.
Should be Guidance coming from the Provost’s office to direct college unit
to BOT required inclusion through out the entire process.

- Experiential Learning. The Governor has indicated that he expects every
student graduating from a SUNY to have engaged in applied or experiential
learning.  SUNY COW is an established leader in the area and could help the
system to “Scale-Up” if legislature requires the change. Question as to
whether to organize about the violation of BOT shared governance in
addressing the curricular issues of imposing such a requirement.
        ·        
- Establish a Master Innovators program in partnership with the Research
Foundation, which would provide for financial incentives to college
presidents who provide proven leadership resulting in commercialization of
research through START-UP NY. $50M across the state. Governor is looking to
improve commercial productivity and job-creation in poverty pockets, and to
have SUNY remain pre-eminent in research and tech solutions. Will be due to
the Board of Trustees by December 31, 2015. (COW Senator suggests. Not only
should we apply in science and tech areas, but, in Experiential Learning
with a Non-profit – Community Success Institute).
      -         
- Elimination of $7.6M in direct State support for salary costs provided in
the 2014/15 Enacted Budget.
       
- University-wide Programs: No new funding provided
      -    Reduction of funding for the Seamless Education Pipeline, Energy
        Smart and Healthier NY of a combined $141.4K.
      -    Addition of this $141.4K to the Charter Schools Institute.
      -    Elimination of additional funding provided in the 2014/15 Enacted
        budget for EOP, ATTAIN, Cornell Veterinary College, and Stony Brook
        Marine Animal Laboratory.
  
- Hospitals and Health Related Activities: (Appears to increase legislative
 oversight, perhaps from abuses at LICH
     -      Level of authority provided to spend campus revenue is under
        review to “ensure it will be sufficient to accommodate planned
        activities”.
     -      Direct State support for the three SUNY teaching hospitals is
        reduced by $18.0M.
     -      Additional funding opportunities are being explored through the
        Department of Health. (Will this force DOH to reduce its spending by
        having to “share” with University Hospitals?).
       
- Statutory Colleges: No new funding provided and a painful loss of $300K
 for Cornell Cooperative Extension.
       
- Community Colleges (CC): $1.5M in grants to up to three (3) CC’s to act
as “community hubs”.


      -  Base Operating Aid remains at $2,497 per Funded Full-Time
       Equivalent (FTE) (unchanged from 2014/15 Enacted).  However, as with
       all SUNY Colleges/University Centers, 10% of Base Operating Aid for
       each CC is contingent on completion of “Performance Improvement
       Plans” approved by the BOT.  As with all SUNY campuses such SUNY
       Excels plans will provide the basis for performance funding in
       future years. And will include all of the 5 Categories and 17
       Indicators as described above.  CC’s will also include: 1). New
       programs and certifications aligned with the needs of local
       businesses, and, 2).  Alignment with the Regional Economic
       Development Councils.


      -  Elimination of additional funding provided in the 2014/15 Enacted
       budget for Child Care and GAP Programs
      -  System Administration is charged with establishing Regional SUNY CC
        Councils. This initiative is intended to align the operations of CC
        (outside of NYC) with each Regional Economic Development Council.
        The Chancellor shall appoint council members and each council shall:
            *Set program development and transfer goals on a regional basis,
            * Align education and training program offerings to regional
            economic development activities,
             *Establish goals to improve student outcomes.
       
       General Items:


      -  Streamlining of new Education Programs to Meet Workforce Needs
      -  Shorten approval time for new programs that do not require a Master
      Plan Amendment.
             -  Creation of “Get On Your Feet” Loan Forgiveness Plan which
       allows students who meet certain criteria to have the first two
       years of their student loans paid by NYS if student:
             *Attends college in NYS,
             *Lives in NYS for five years following graduation,
             *Participates in the federal “Pay As You Go” program,
             *Earns less than $50,000 in annual income.
      -  Establishment of the NYS DREAM Act allowing students without lawful
       immigration status (that meet   certain criteria) to be eligible for
       the TAP program and other scholarship programs.
      -  Standardization of College Financial Award Letters for all
          institutions of higher education in NYS (based
         on current SUNY award letter).
      -  Implementation of Uniform Sexual Violence Prevention and Response
       Policies for all institutions of     higher education in NYS (based
       on current SUNY policy).
      -  Require Experiential/Applied Learning activities for all students
      graduating from from a SUNY/CUNY
      -  Increasing the minimum wage to $10.50 ($11.50 in NYC).
        
      Capital
       
      The Executive Budget recommends new capital appropriations for 2015/16
      for:
       
      State-operated/Statutory Colleges – Educational Facilities:
      - Five-Year Capital & Financing Plan provides recurring funding of
      $200M in each of the five years beginning with 2015-2016 for a total
      of $1.0.  However, the appropriations for years 2016/17 through
      2019/20 are not included in the Executive Budget and would be subject
      to the approval of the Legislature yearly. Use of the new
      appropriation is restricted to critical maintenance projects in
      existing facilities. And,
      -  $19M for additional critical maintenance projects at Stony Brook
      University.
      -  $50M to provide full funding to construct a new school of pharmacy
       at Binghamton University with half of that sum $25M appropriated via
       State University Construction Fund and $25.M via the Urban
       Development Corporation.   
      -  $55.0M is provided through the Urban Development Corporation to
       support a fifth round of SUNY 2020 Challenge Grants. 
      -  $19M is provided through the Urban Development Corporation for the
       College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell University.
       
      State-operated Residence Halls
      - $50M in pay as you go appropriations.
              
      Hospitals
      -  Funding for SUNY’s Hospital capital program was not included in the
      Executive Budget. 
      -  However, the Executive Budget does include $400M in capital grants
       to any hospitals or hospital systems that offer health care services
       in any underserved region.  The grants are for any providers that
       facilitate mergers, consolidation, acquisition, or other
       restructuring activities to create a financially sustainable system
       of health care.
      - In addition, the Executive Budget provides $1B to support projects
      that stabilize hospitals and make necessary infrastructure
      investments to access to community-based primary and preventative
      health services in Brooklyn and create an integrated delivery system
      in Oneida County.  
       
      Community Colleges
      -  $81.2M is included in the Executive Budget for the 17 projects at
       11 community colleges that were left out of the 2014/15 Enacted
       State Budget.
      -  An additional $62.1M is included, representing the State’s 50
       percent funding share for 42 new projects at 18 colleges that
       obtained local sponsor support.
      - In addition, the following projects were not included in the
      Executive Budget:
      *FIT (Pomerantz Center Roof Repair and Elevator Refurbishment)
      *Genesee (Student Services Renovation)
      *Suffolk (Infrastructure Improvements)
IX. Sector Reports and discussion with Chancellor Nancy Zimpher:
Expressed by the President of the UFS: Chancellor supporting the Governor’s
proposal that all students have applied learning/internship by legislative
action. So, the Governor and Chancellor are imposing a curriculum change on
faculty.
Medical Sector:  Q; What is your interpretation of the future and vision of
health care based on the Governor’s lack of financial support for the SUNY
hospitals and the capital grants to hospitals or hospital systems?
Q; Is the statement in the governor’s budget “level of authority”
reflective of the governor’s endorsement of your previously raised ideas of
local financial oversight boards for the hospitals?
Q:Is there an overall plan to expand health science education programs in
light of the establishment of the 2 new pharmacy schools at Binghamton and
Stony Brook?
Chancellor’s Response: Very busy couple of years for health care for SUNY
and relationship building between Upstate and Binghamton is part of that
process. $500M in funding for all hospitals, but not sure what that means.
Appears to be sentimentality towards funding hospital and health care in
Brooklyn, but, there is no specificity about State Operated Schools of
Medicine and the Hospitals needed to deliver that education.  Not sure what
“level of authority” refers to in Governor’s statement, but SUNY suffered a
lot of vulnerability due to LICH. Awaiting task force recommendations
regarding hospital issues.
Specialized Colleges Sector: Sector Rep thanks Chancellor for progress at
SUNY Ceramics at Alfred.
Q. Governor’s budget proposal regarding mandate of experiential
learning—the concern is the politicization of the curriculum. Do you plan
to lobby for changes in the budget that mandate curriculum?
Q. Regarding TAP concerns at Stony Brook. Can SUNY develop and employ
services to monitor TAP eligibility?
Chancellor’s Response: Q. We have just appointed a  new Director of
Strategic Enrollment Planning, to help us solve enrollment-planning
problems across the sectors, not merely at Stony Brook.
Applied/experiential learning has been part of the conversation between all
of us for several years now and we have a framework for experiential
learning at many campuses. We’d like for the NYS to help us support applied
learning financially. Chancellor said she did not see the Governor’s action
it as usurping curricular authority of the Faculty, but a chance to giving
us the resources we need to accomplish this goal. She does not think it is
the intent of this Governor to manage SUNY or CUNY curricular innovations.
TAP raised a lot of questions that need to be answered and Stony Brook
audit outcomes will apply to TAP on all campuses. Attempt to get some
advisement online so students can make progress in their programs across
the system.
Technology Sector:  Q. How will SUNY increase its graduation numbers from
90,000 a year to 150,000 a year in five years as you have requested of the
system if TAP awards are now going to be limited to program required
courses and campus Performance Allocation funding?
Q. What are your proposals to bridge the gap in salary inequality in the
Tech sector between older faculty and younger faculty and to improve the
diversity of the Tech sector faculty?
Q. Do you envision a SUNY Works Database that will provide all students
access to experiential learning opportunities by all SUNY Works affiliated
companies?
Chancellor’s Response: Spending $95 M in remediation that does not accrue
to credit to degree, so we can’t keep doing it the way we have been. No
good device for examining the reasons for remediation, but asked for
support to take piloted remediation at some Community Colleges more
broadly. Chief Diversity Officers on every campus important because we
report at all levels, but not good enough at diversifying the populations
working at and attending on campuses. . Use the states investment in
experiential learning as a clearinghouse for partnering and funding work of
interns.
Campus Governance Leaders Sector: CGLs reporting an inadequate level of
consultation with faculty regarding appointment and evaluation of
Administration from level of Dean and above?  And lack of consultation on
SUNY Excels Plans.
Q. Can you reaffirm that the curriculum is the purview of the faculty and
not the Governor?
Q. Open Access journals, publication are not free.  Can SUNY provide
funding to cover fees for faculty publishing in "high end" online journals?
Chancellor’s Response: Alex Cartwright is informed about how we are going
to address Open Access.  The Experiential Learning item is really a SUNY
Systems idea to increase access to and support for applied learning. The
Governor is not interfering with the curriculum, but we need his support to
undertake these initiatives and having him take ownership helps to fund the
objective. Upcoming conference on SUNY Voices will help uphold commitment
to shared governance. Starting a good faith review of President’s at State
Operated campuses.
University Colleges Sector: Q. It’s been reported that in your State of
SUNY Address that your goal is to have internships for all students, can
you define what you mean by internships?
Q. From the perspective of the Faculty, an internship is a curricular and a
Gen Ed issue, but there seems to be limited faculty involvement in making
the decision to require all students to have such an experience?
Q. Our sector is highly accomplished at designing these curricular options,
but they are “costly”, are you willing to convene a working group made up
of those from our sector with success in this arena?
Q. What plans are currently in place to make this goal real?
Chancellor’s Response: In terms of experiential learning, there is some of
this idea in the 2010 strategic plan and we have been acting on the notion
that finding real world opportunities is something we should consider. 150
people convened to discuss how applied learning would manifest and engage
students and we received testimony from people in career services. Half of
our student body always engages in required clinical experiences, so we are
looking at students who want more of this but are part of programs that
don’t necessarily provide it. Applied learning experience can be defined as
everything: volunteerism, service learning, internships, laboratory work,
and StartUp NY. We can’t ensure this without getting the governor’s support
for funding. To the degree that we need insurances the quality is there, we
expect supervision, product, evaluation, fit with curriculum. The resources
will provide the oversight to make all of this available to our students.
The person leading the conversations is from Binghamton and there is a lot
of support for this idea. The idea is to power up the best practices and
make them viable across the state system.  How are we going to manage the
next steps, because we are a long way from implementing this. Opportunity
to talk about defining resources, etc. and she welcomes a task force, but
doesn’t want to start from ground zero, because there have already been
discussions on this topic.
University Centers Sector: Q. There are movements in the US Congress to
minimize or defund National Science Foundation (NSF) resources and to
eliminate peer reviewing of proposals?
Q. Comptrollers audit of Stony Brook led to fine regarding TAP program, how
would you help campuses with the TAP issues?
q. What will you do to provide adequate resources for Open Access?
Chancellor’s Response: We need to gather together to work on the Open
Access issue. SUNY Central worked closely with Stony Brook to help with the
TAP audit and working with comptroller. Encourage Pete to ask for statement
from SUNY Central regarding this. We are beefing up federal relations team
and working with firm and Alex will also work with the Research Foundation
to lobby as we can.
IX. Provost Office Report – Alex Cartwright, Ph.D. Provost and Executive
Vice Chancellor
SUNY Excels framework that allows us to measure what we are doing and pick
things that are mission critical and widely inclusive.
Five priority areas: Access, Completion, Success, Inquiry (used to be
Research), and Engagement
Institution will have different goals and there is ability for institutions
to define their measures.
Seventeen metrics (from over 200) and met with faculty and other groups to
get to this point.
Next steps: Target setting—how to define them and set targets. Telling
SUNY’s story—adding clarity to our communications about current
performance, path to improvement, and accountability.
Student Data Brief—First Year Retention: 4-year campuses exceed the
national averages. Tech centers have improved 9% over last 10 years.
Graduation Rates: 4, 5 & 6-year rates continue to increase.
X. Faculty Council of Community Colleges—Tina Good, President
In response to Governor’s state of the state: Community colleges funded by
the state, local sponsors and tuition. Supposed to be 1/3 each, but the
state hasn’t met its obligation since the 70s. Counties have met it in some
cases, but not in others. Cap that they can’t have higher tuition than
state operated campuses, but students are still paying over 40%. Governor
is positioning community colleges as vocational schools align- ing with
regional economic development committees.
Obama’s comment that community colleges should be free is never going to
happen, because it requires too much money.
XI. SUNY Student Assembly—Lori Mould, President
Bylaws changes, diversity task force, working on resolution/policy on
prevention of sexual violence and misconduct, making sure students have a
voice at SUNY.
Town hall meetings very successful, many attended by the Chancellor. Issues
particularly on advisement. International students not feeling included-
dining halls, off campus.
Meetings on YikYak, some students think it is a positive way to get
information to other students, but lots of negative associations.
XII. CUNY Faculty Senate—Terry Martell, Chair
Generally positive, their new Chancellor making changes to the culture and
making it more faculty friendly. Searching for new Provost. Enhanced
library privileges and retaining email addresses for retired faculty,
committees are more engaged in faculty concerns, and more productive
overall. Working toward greater transparency in accounting.
XIII. President’s Report—Peter Knuepfer
Chancellor would obviously like to move forward on issue of requiring an
applied learning experience for all students. Expectation of the Governor
and supported by the Chancellor. However, she also heard our disquiet about
who should be making decisions regarding faculty control of the curriculum.
Draft resolution that speaks to this issue, will be brought after
discussion with the Chancellor.
Senate awards-. Call for nominations (specifics on web site): Outstanding
Service Award, Friend of the Senate Award, Senator Emeritus Award, and
University Faculty Senate Fellow Award.
Base budget declines by $7M, so there will be a lot of back and forth
between Governor and legislature. $18M opportunity for SUNY to start
performance funding (SUNY Excels). Hold back of 10%: one side is that it is
not a big deal, we have already put in plans; however, it sets a precedent
because it is tying 10% of existing funding to performance. In the fall
there were statements that it would only be tied to new money, but it is
obviously being tied to performance even if at a minimal level to start.
The Chancellor’s statement about moving from 92.000 SUNY system graduates
yearly to 150.000 seems unrealistic. Where will resources come from?
Ad hoc Committee on LGBTQ, Tim Gerken, chair, focused mostly on faculty and
staff concerns, campus climates.
Discussion of potential Congressional intent to defund the National Science
Foundation
XV. Committee Reports – Committee and Senator Chairing the Committee
         - Diversity Committee – Tim Gerken’
         - Ethics Committee – Shelly Mozlin
         - Governance Committee – Peggy De Cooke
         - Graduate and Research Committee – Rosalyn Rufer
         - Operations Committee – Tom Sinclair
         - Programs and Awards Committee – Bruce Leslie
         - Student Life Committee – Kelley Donaghy
         - Undergraduate Committee – Dan White
XIV. Resolutions
Resolution 1

      To: University Faculty Senate:

      From: Graduate and Research Committee

      Incentives to Support the Submission of STEM Graduate Research Grant
      Applications

      Whereas, there are limited external funding sources for STEM graduate
      student research, and

      Whereas, the SUNY Research Foundation has established a pool of money
      to support STEM research, and

      Whereas the reputation of SUNY graduate programs would be enhanced by
      successful STEM graduate student research grants, and

      Whereas STEM graduate student career success will be improved by the
      ability to write competitive grant applications, and

      Whereas it has been demonstrated on a number of campuses that
      incentives are one important means to increase the number and quality
      of faculty grant applications, and

      Resolution:

      Be it resolved that University Faculty Senate urges the SUNY Research
      Foundation to establish a pilot program that provides incentives to
      STEM graduate students to write and submit competitive grant
      applications to external funding agencies to support research in the
      STEM fields.


      Be it further resolved that the pilot program be evaluated and if
      successful expanded to support graduate research in all fields.


Passed without dissent.

Resolution 2
      January 23rd, 2015
      Resolution in support of the General Assembly of the Student Assembly
      of the State University of New York’s 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success
      resolution 1415-36


      SUBMITTED BY:  SUNY University Faculty Senate Student Life Committee
      Whereas, there is an increasing number of veterans and their
      dependents/family members attending Colleges and Universities1; and


      Whereas, veterans and their dependents/family members have been
      identified as a student group that may face unique challenges upon
      arrival to campus; and


      Whereas, the number of beneficiaries of federal veterans educational
      support programs exceeded 35,000 in New York state in fiscal year
      20132; and


      Whereas, on 10 August 2013, U.S. President Obama, during a speech at
      the Disabled American Veterans Conference3, presented the “8 Keys to
      Veterans’ Success”, a voluntary initiative supported by the U.S.
      Departments of Education, Veterans Affairs, and Defense4 (Appendix);
      and


      Whereas, on 20 October 2014, the General Assembly of the Student
      Assembly of the State University of New York passed the 8 Keys to
      Veteran’s Success resolution 1415-36 to encourage more SUNY campuses
      to participate by signing this voluntary initiative5; and


      Whereas, it has been demonstrated on campuses that have adopt the 8
      Keys to Veteran’s Success, success the assimilation of the student
      veterans into the College community has been enhanced


      Whereas, as of 6 January 2015, one thousand three hundred and seventy
      five (1,375) Colleges and Universities Nationwide have committed to
      the 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success, of those only sixteen (16) are State
      University of New York institutions; therefore


      Be It Resolved that the State University of New York University
      Faculty Senate supports the General Assembly of the Student Assembly
      of the State University Resolution #1415-36; and


      Be it Further Resolved that the State University of New York
      University Faculty Senate (SUNY UFS) asks that campus governance
      leaders encourage their campuses to review, adopt, and actively
      participate in, the voluntary initiative, “8 Keys of Veterans’
      Success”; and


      Finally Be it Resolved that the SUNY UFS encourages the SUNY
      Chancellor to ask each campus President to review, and report, to the
      campus community and the SUNY Chancellor on the veteran specific
      services provided by their campuses to ensure that our veteran
      students succeed to the best of their abilities.


      1 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/10/17/veterans-enroll-in-
      college_n_4117250.html
      2 http://www.benefits.va.gov/REPORTS/abr/ABR-Education-FY13-
      09262014.pdf
      3 http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/08/10/remarks-first-
      lady-and-president-disabled-american-veterans-convention
      4 http://www.ed.gov/veterans-and-military-families/8-keys-success-
      sites
      5 http://www.sunysa.org/wp-content/uploads/SUNYSA-Resolution-1415-36-
      Military-Success.pdf


      Appendix:
      The 8 Keys to Veterans’ Success
        1. Create a culture of trust and connectedness across the campus
           community to promote well-being and success for veterans.
        2. Ensure consistent and sustained support from campus leadership.
        3. Implement an early alert system to ensure all veterans receive
           academic, career, and financial advice before challenges become
           overwhelming.
        4. Coordinate and centralize campus efforts for all veterans,
           together with the creation of a designated space for them (even
           if limited in size).
        5. Collaborate with local communities and organizations, including
           government agencies, to align and coordinate various services
           for veterans.
        6. Utilize a uniform set of data tools to collect and track
           information on veterans, including demographics, retention, and
           degree completion.
        7. Provide comprehensive professional development for faculty and
           staff on issues and challenges unique to veterans.
        8. Develop systems that ensure sustainability of effective
           practices for veterans.

Passed without dissent

Resolution 3

      Resolution in Support of the 2015 Budget Request of the State
      University of New York


      Submitted by: the Executive Committee of the University Faculty Senate


      January 23, 2015


      Whereas, the State University of New York has demonstrated itself to
      be an excellent steward of state construction funding over the past
      five years, and


      Whereas, the State University of New York has used the investments
      provided by NY SUNY2020 wisely and well, by developing a large number
      of new academic programs in high-needs areas, and


      Whereas, the State University of New York has created a comprehensive
      performance based assessment system that allows for each campus to
      determine its areas of focused improvement, and


      Whereas, the State University of New York has initiated Open SUNY, an
      integrated system of distance education that allows for campus program
      initiatives and faculty authority over the curriculum, and


      Whereas, the SUNY Board of Trustees has submitted a budget request for
      2015-16 that would increase State funding to SUNY to cover mandated
      and inflationary costs and establish two new funds:  a $50 million-per-
      year Master Innovator program and a $50 million-per-year Innovation
      Fund, each for five years;


      Therefore, Be It Resolved,


      The University Faculty Senate of the State University of New York most
      strongly endorses and supports the 2015-16 budget request of the Board
      of Trustees of the State University of New York, and be it further


      Resolved the UFS urges faculty and staff colleagues to advocate for
      SUNY on behalf of this budget request.


Passed by majority vote

For consider at campus unit level:
         - Support resolutions 1 and 2
         - Consider a resolution to the Governor on public education and
           public services to be distributed to all CGL’s across SUNY and
           CC’s and all SUNY Senators in UFS
         - Resolution re: SUNY Excels, hold of 10% and maintenance of
           diversity
         - Letter of Concern re: National Science Foundation – US
           Congressional Leadership and to CGL’s.
         - Resolution Curricular authority of Governor and Chancellor –
           under discussion in UFS

Respectfully Submitted

Minna Barrett 1/29/15
University Faculty Senator