Co-Directors of Academic Assessment
2020-2021 Report
Executive Summary

November 2021

Ashlee Lien
Co-Director of Academic Assessment, ISLO Assessment Emphasis
Ryoko Yamamoto
Co-Director of Academic Assessment, PSLO Assessment Emphasis

1

SCOPE OF THE REPORT
This report is prepared by Co-Directors of Academic Assessment (Co-DAAs), Ashlee Lien and Ryoko
Yamamoto, to document and share the development of academic assessment and their initiatives since
the time of appointment to the present (Jan 15, 2020 – Nov 12, 2021).
According to the performance programs, responsibilities of Co-DAAs include documenting academic
assessment activities and analysis, facilitating the college-wide communication regarding academic
assessment, representing the College in venues relevant to academic assessment, and providing support
and guidance to faculty regarding academic assessment.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
•

Academic Assessment at OW has been highly segmented by School with varied level of practice
and resources.
ü SOE and SOB have established program-level assessment to satisfy accreditation
requirements and have received personnel support and resources to support the work.
ü SAS departments are responsible for Institutional-level Student Learning Outcome
(ISLO) assessment and Program-level Student Learning outcome (PSLO) assessment.
There have been no dedicated resources for program-level assessment in SAS or SPS.
ü Regular ISLO assessment data collection has been established with coordination by CoDAA and LEC. This practice has been long-standing but resources to support the
assessment practice are negotiated annually.
ü Prior to Spring 2021, PSLO assessment in SAS departments without discipline specific
accreditation was only documented through CAP Five Year Review. There was no
organized process nor resource to support regular and ongoing PSLO assessment.

•

Middle States Self Study and verbal and written feedback from the MSCHE Team in March
2021 identified the imminent need of establishing a systematic and regular process for PSLO
assessment practice and utilization of assessment data (PSLO and ISLO) in SAS and SPS.
These points were reiterated in the June 24 request for Supplemental Information Report (SIR).
Specific points of concern include:
ü The lack of an organized process for, and a regular practice of, PSLO assessment data
collection in programs without discipline-specific accreditation.
ü The lack of an organized process for, and a regular and documented practice of sharing
PSLO and ISLO assessment results with stakeholders and utilizing them for the
improvement of curriculum and student learning experience.
ü PSLOs are “clearly written,” but some are “not sufficiently linked to the underlying
discipline(s)”.

•

Since the MSCHE Team visit, the processes to facilitate an organized, systematic, and
meaningful PSLO assessment have been designed and implemented. Specifically,

Co-Director of Academic Assessment 2020-2021 Report: Executive Summary

2

ü The Academic Assessment Plan for each degree program, including PSLOs, a
curriculum map, multi-year strategic assessment schedule, and a plan for assessment data
sharing and feedback (Spring 2021, to be revised at the completion of the Assessment
Fellows Program).
ü Degree (Major) Program Assessment Year-End Report, which includes updates on
student learning data collection, the utilization of assessment data, and changes in
assessment tools (June 2021).
ü The Assessment Fellows Program, as a preparatory program for the SAS Assessment
Coordinator System (pending funding).
ü An academic assessment website with PSLOs, curriculum maps and assessment FAQs.
•

As a result, SAS and SPS departments improved assessment tools since the MSCHE visit and
are now engaging with more regular, strategic and better documented assessment practice
with active facilitation of “Closing the Loop.”
ü All SAS departments and SPS have PSLOs linked to the discipline, curriculum maps and
a strategic multi-year assessment schedule for their degree programs.
ü Multiple SAS departments created a departmental assessment committee.
ü Most of SAS departments and SPS will have completed at least one PSLO assessment by
the end of Fall 2021. The rest of departments will commence data collection in Spring
2021.
ü Assessment Fellows receive training in assessment and engage with collective problem
solving in biweekly meetings.
ü Assessment Fellows are coordinating departmental assessment practice and facilitating
inter-departmental communication.
ü Almost all SAS departments and SPS have some plans to share and discuss PSLO
assessment results within the department and the rest are in the process of creating them.
ü A shift toward meaningful, action-oriented assessment in SAS departments are facilitated
through various Fellows activities.
ü Four SAS departments are engaging with “Closing the Loop Showcase” activity utilizing
recent assessment reports and are scheduled to share outcomes with broader audience in
Spring 2022.

•

The LEC has established a systematic process for ongoing ISLO assessment and utilization
of assessment data (Closing the Loop) to inform the liberal education curriculum.
ü A new 5-year schedule has been established to ensure the assessment for every domain
and competency in the Liberal Education Program.
ü A 5-phase model for assessment has been developed that engages each domain in the
assessment process every academic year. The phases ensure ongoing data collection,
analysis, and communication and utilization of assessment data to inform the curriculum
(“Close the Loop”).
ü LEC meetings now include regular, structured conversations about assessment and
“Closing the Loop” activities in domains.
ü The process of transitioning to LEAP+ is ongoing, with a complete process of mapping
domains to LEAP Essential Learning Outcomes.
ü The LEC decided to create detailed rubrics to create a more rigorous assessment
process, with plans to begin the process in AY 2021-22.

Co-Director of Academic Assessment 2020-2021 Report: Executive Summary

3

•

Moving forward,
ü What We Must Do
§ Follow through with continuous assessment practice
§ Schedule a routine review of the Assessment Plan
§ Establish regular and documented assessment data sharing and utilization
§ Create documentation to ensure continuity of assessment through personnel
changes in LEC
ü Where We Want to Go
§ Faculty-centered, faculty-embraced assessment
§ Assessment as resource
§ Vibrant teaching & learning + curricular building + assessment synergy
§ Creative, multi-faceted academic assessment
§ Regular conversation about assessment practices (faculty and administrative
updates)
ü What We Should Avoid
§ Checkbox assessment
§ Micro-obsessed assessment
ü What We Need/Want
§ The Assessment Coordinator System for SAS and SPS
§ A bottom-up, faculty-led process for creating assessment policies and guidelines
and supporting assessment practices
§ A college-wide annual assessment calendar with a multi-year strategic assessment
plan
§ A system of incentivizing best practice and peer-learning (e.g., Closing the Loop
Grant, Showcase events)
§ Explicitly laid out bottom line and aspirational expectations and steps to achieve
them
§ Trust building / Culture of Listening

Co-Director of Academic Assessment 2020-2021 Report: Executive Summary

4