VALUE-ADDED ASSESSMENT UPDATE
Introduction

As Trustees know, an important aspect of the June Board resolution was its stipulation that we
begin the process leading to implementation of University-wide value-added assessment by
meeting with faculty and campus leadership to develop the initial procedures and timeline to be

followed as well as a formal Memorandum of Understanding, to be endorsed by faculty
governance, which will address faculty concerns.
We completed the task of developing a draft of the Memorandum of Understanding at the end of

September, so that it could be discussed at the fall plenary sessions of the Faculty Council of
Community Colleges and the University Faculty Senate.

Fall Plenaries

At its fall plenary, the Faculty Council voted to respectfully request that the Board of Trustees
reconsider the June resolution and allow Community College faculty to proceed unimpeded with
their current approved plans of general education assessment. The Faculty Council indicated that
the faculty do not support a system-wide plan for the use of common metrics to assess student
learning outcomes, and the resolution that was passed did not address the MOU.
The University Faculty Senate, at its fall plenary this past week, respectfully requested that the
Board suspend implementation of the June resolution in order to engage in a substantial dialogue
among representatives of the Provost’s Office, the Board of Trustees and faculty governance
regarding “University-wide campus-based assessment.” (By this, I believe they intend to
describe a diverse set of campus-based processes across the University.) Further, they indicated
that they cannot support the proposed MOU but that they do support an ongoing discussion

which will produce a mutually acceptable process of University-wide campus-based assessment.
They also underscored their long-standing commitment to University-wide campus-based
assessment and indicated that they will urge campuses to continue to implement their GEAR-

approved General Education assessment plans. And finally, they invited the Board and System
Administration to continue to discuss the assessment of foundational skills in General Education,

indicating that this may include externally referenced measures of the campus’s choice that
provides for campus responsibility and System Administration oversight.
Next Steps

At this point, I have not yet had an opportunity to speak with Chancellor King and to receive his
instructions as to how to proceed. But clearly, the opposition of faculty governance bodies to
what has been proposed complicates the implementation of the June resolution. Aside from the
practical difficulties we would face in not having willing faculty participation in the development
process or volunteer campuses for the pilot process, we have a deep respect for faculty
responsibility for the activities that go on in their classrooms.

We have tried—from the outset-—

to develop an assessment initiative that enjoys the support of faculty across the University, as
experience with assessment nationwide indicates that it is always better to have strong faculty
buy-in if the assessment process is to grow roots and thrive.
Despite these difficulties, I remain optimistic. While I am disappointed that faculty did not
articulate their support for the underlying objectives of value-added assessment, including the

importance of probing campus-based factors that influence intellectual growth (goals which are
well grounded in good assessment practices), I do believe that the faculty are sincere in wanting
to work with us and I believe that we will succeed in developing a process that we all agree will

address the important goals of this initiative.

Donald Steven

Associate Provost and Head of the Office of Academic Affairs
System Administration
October 27, 2003