STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

SPECIAL MEETING of the Faculty Senate and Full Faculty

Friday, December 4, 2020 

12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

Location: Zoom

Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive





Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), John Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Roger Mayer (AC), Llana Barber (AS), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gilic (EE, Senator-At-Large (SOE)), Deepa Jani (EN), Laura Anker (FY), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Doyoung Park (MACS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Sarah Smith (PH), Erik Benau (PY), Curtis Holland (SY), Catherine Bernard (VA), Jillian Crocker (ARPT), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Danielle Lee (LEC), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Eric Hagan (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA)

Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE)

Visitors: Malini Kumar, Jacob Heller, Evan Kobolakis, Jermaine Archer, Lisa Chin, Elizabeth Schmermund, Martha Livingston, Ed Bever, Jody Cardinal, Gary Levanti, Youngjoo Kim, Joanne Spadaro, Dinorah Martinez, Svetlana Jovic, Mili Makhijani, Robert Bednarczyk, Wayne Edwards, Marisa Glaser, Patty Harris, Nicole Sieben, Lenore Walsh, Samara Smith, Barbara Hillery, Cris Notaro, Anthony Barbera, Tejas Bouklas, Costas Hadjicharalambous, Kasia Platt, Renu Balyan, Frank Pizzardi Jr., Lee Blackstone, Rose Muzio, Lorenz Neuwirth, Carol Quirke, Yogesh More, Betty Berbari, Maureen Keefe, Claudia Marin Andrade, Lisa Payton, Rachel Kalish, Chris Hartmann, Fred Millan, Lourdes Guillaume

Roster of Senators Absent: Xavier Marechaux (AE), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA), Hana Elgoarany (SGA)







Call to Order





Approval of Minutes for Nov 20, 2020 

Minutes approved as amended 



III. Chair’s Report 15 minutes 

Discussion about Credit/no credit resolution 

Impressions were given on what happened and what happens next

Motivation for the resolution and the events. Social justice issue. 

In the end, due to time constraints, it was not feasible to implement 

Pushing for more voices in faculty governance 

Voiced opinions on why this resolution did not pass in time and how it could be addressed better in the future.



Provost’s Report 15 minutes 

Addressed the communication concern regarding credit/no credit. It did not reach the office of the provost until the week before Thanksgiving.

No indication in the midterm grade distribution of how necessary the need was although very strong consideration was given.

Hopes that that substantive response communicated to all,the gravity with which that resolution was managed when it came to the administration.

Spring plan: opening up the library as an academic center. 12 things conceptualized in this idea giving students greater support.

Intensive support will be available through the end of semester and into January. Tutoring center: helping students with incompletes is an important focus.

Withdrawal period will be extended until next Friday.





UUP Report 10 minutes  

Working statewide of specific issues 

UUP has been deeply engaged for best practices for the spring semester. A report will be provided.

Who is deemed essential and must be on campus? 

UUP has a number of campaigns going on, please check email.

Including Wall Street Stock Transfer tax

Excess vacation days for UUP members can now be saved until December 2021.



SGA Report 10 minutes 

June 2020 we organized a Black Lives Matter March for Breonna Taylor, 200 people came.

September, a black woman’s march, voter registration and census information as well. 

Lower student activity fee by 25% due to the pandemic.

Donated $12,000 to the general Scholarship Fund. Career Development line is almost finished. Of the $15,000 7500 will be for graduate exams, LSAT GRE GMAT, Old Westbury gets 50% off the cost for those tests. So SGA will be subsidizing an extra $500 per student.

We just released a textbook scholarship award we signed the MRU with the College Foundation is $200 per student.

We just initiated the SGA engagement award for the year of 2021 or 2022. We have four winners of this year's SGA engagement award on the award is $1300 dollars for several students who are involved either academically or socially on our campus. So the four winners is Kelly chin, Don Carella, Rebecca Moldova and Austin Young.

We have $25,000 for the student emergency COVID 19 line. Will possibly go to the peer to peer scholarship that SGA is fundraising for students.

We are working on a dispenser project with Katherine Lablique. She is the Student Conduct officer on getting menstrual and contraception products in the bathrooms.

SGA has a series of events to keep the student engaged including triva night and sip and paint.

OSSD contacted SGA in regards to a software that can take notes for students who are not able, SGA will pay for the license for another year.

Speakers will be found for different programs such as Black History Month.

SGA will be collaborating for commencement 2021

Students want open office hours to be displayed on Syllabi 



CAP Resolution 35 minutes 

Five resolutions. Two micro credential policy resolutions, one new minor and two new micro credentials.

Currently the college has no policy about transferring credits for micro credentials.

Looking for approval from faculty senate for the changes to this micro credential policy.

A micro credential program could range from two courses to four courses. This means that if the micro credential program consists of two courses, no transfer would be our road. If the micro credential program includes either three courses or four courses then one course can be transferred.

The courses that fulfill micro credential requirements must be taken within five years of onboarding.

This policy/ procedural resolution was passed by unanimous consent.

The second resolution asks that faculty senate retroactively approve acceptance to a micro credential program to spring and summer 2020 graduates. 

This procedural resolution was also passed by unanimous consent .

Minor in Community Health, focus on social science.

Unanimous consent was given to this minor in Community Health.

Micro credential in Spanish translation, four course which was also accepted by unanimous consent.

Lastly, micro credential in Professional skills which also passed by unanimous consent.





APPC Policy Change 10 minutes 

Discussion and vote on two resolutions 

Two recommendations to the college's probation, suspension and dismissal policy.

One change is to only ban students from participating in committees, clubs or other, you know, extracurricular activities, if their cumulative GPA falls below 2.0.

There were questions which caused the vote to be pushed to a future meeting.

Second is changing the wording in the reinstatement procedure So it is not necessary for the registrar's office to track down APPC members to reinstate a student who observed their suspension or dismissal.

Second policy change resolution was passed by unanimous consent.



OER Report 10 minutes 

Explanation of what OER is was given.

This fall we had 25 courses registered.

In October faculty were asked to submit syllabi for review to be tagged.

23 coursed are registered with tags for spring, 17 are repeat, the rest are new.

The committee  review licenses on course material.

Funding given was used to fund faculty incentive programs.

There is no direct funding for campuses.

 Hoping to do two events including one in collaboration with SGA.





IT update 5 minutes 

Internet access service is now live, enabling networking capabilities allowing use to be a research institution.

Internet bandwidth size is increasing from 500 megabits to 10 gigabits.

Students and faculty will now have a much faster connection.

Connections to network are now much more secure.

Eduroam  gives capability to students and faculty to use their credentials to go to any other campus, and utilize their resources. Partnership with other SUNY campuses.

The two rooms being built for faculty to come and test the technology, the date for that has been pushed back from December 9th until further notice.





Sharing of Concerns/Announcements 5 minutes 





Adjournment