FY 2018 – 2021
STRATEGIC PLAN
“ONE CHALLENGE, ONE CARD, ONE CAMPUS”
The Auxiliary Service Corporation (ASC) strategic plan builds upon the first
twelve years of successful operations and uses that very foundation to expand its
ongoing services as it continues to establish, operate, manage and promote
auxiliary services for the benefit of the Old Westbury College community and
members of the public. In addition, this plan aligns ASC initiatives with those
designated in the College’s Strategic Plan (CSP), completed April 2018 (see
Attachment 1).
Since its reestablishment in 2006, the ASC has increased its support for the
College primarily through student scholarships and providing funding for multiple
events such as Panther Pride Homecoming, Alumni Association, College
Foundation and Student Government Association (SGA) programs and activities.
The ASC presently manages vendor contracts for food service, laundry, cell
antenna, vending, including the Shop24 vending store, and bookstore operations.
The ASC serves as the fiscal agent for the SGA, administers the book vouchers
distribution process and provides a variety of other services to students and Old
Westbury community. Moreover, the ASC has funded major renovations in the
Campus Center Atrium and bookstore, and has continued to work with students,
faculty and staff in meeting their needs.
Most notably, over the last two years, the ASC has embarked on the
implementation of the Panther Card, the College’s “one-card program” which will
provide greater convenience and ease of access to a variety of new and
expanded services to the campus.

1

ASC STRATEGIC PLAN FY 2018-2021
Mission Statement
To support the mission of the College at Old Westbury by providing quality
services, events and activities to the college community and members of the
public.
Vision Statement
To build an integrated suite of services that will enrich the collegiate experience
for the Old Westbury College community.
Core Values
The ASC commits to consistently providing quality, convenience and value to our
Old Westbury College community. The ASC defines these key terms as follows:
Quality
• Goods and services of high standards
• Positive and effective customer service
• Dedicated resources to maintain high standards
Convenience
• Timely, efficient and effective services
• Access to services
• Reasonable service options
Value
• Services at fair and benchmark prices
• Investment in assets beneficial to the College
• Enhancing student, faculty and staff experiences
Goals
Through this Strategic Plan the ASC will: (1) Establish a One Card System;(2)
Develop the Panther Card Office to manage the One Card System (3) Provide
quality programming in support of the College’s mission; and (4) Fund book
scholarships and internships for our students. A description of the goals begins
on the following page.

2

ASC STRATEGIC PLAN FY 2018-2021
GOAL 1: Establish Panther ‘One Card’ System – (CSP 1A, 11)
Phase 1: Currently the Panther Card program manages meal plans (i.e. dining
dollars, swipe-in for meals) and the new Panther Bucks. Each resident
student receives funds for both dining dollars and Panther Bucks as part of
the resident fee. Each commuter can easily add funds to their card. Panther
Bucks can be used for food, vending, bookstore, and laundry on campus.
Panther Card readers, which provide access to many areas, have been
installed in the Clark Center and will continue to be added at other key
College locations.
Phase 2: Commencing AY 2018/19, the Panther Card system will include
installation of card readers at the Rt. 107 gate house and the library. Campus
access will expand as we integrate the Panther Card with the Persona Door
Access System. Data from the Panther Card will flow to Persona as proximity
cards are issued and will update multiple times per day. Work will start the
integration of the Panther Card with Library access and copying/printing
services after the Persona integration is completed.
Phase 3: Off campus third party purchasing is envisioned in AY 2019/20. In
addition, the Panther Card will link card holders to managed print services
once installed which will allow them to print from multiple sites. Further,
working with the Facilities Department, a more efficient integration using the
Panther Card for door access will be employed. There are also plans to
implement a mobile app for ordering food services and other services.
GOAL 2: Develop Panther Card Office (Panther Center) – (CSP 2C1 7 C2)
Commencing AY2018/19 the ASC will hire additional staff to manage the
enhanced one card system from the ID office located at the lower east
entrance of the campus center. This office will be modernized and become
the Panther Center, which is envisioned to house the Panther Card
management office as well as provide concierge services and information
regarding campus locations and events. Working with various campus groups,
this Panther Center would be the go-to place for any ID card issues as well as
questions about the campus. The plan includes providing support personnel
for the Panther Center, both staff and students (i.e., through paid internships).
GOAL 3: Provide Quality Programming for College Events – (CSP 1B, 4)
In collaboration with Student Affairs, the Alumni Association, the Student
Government Association and the Old Westbury Foundation, the ASC will
continue to enrich the Old Westbury Campus experience by sharing costs and
cosponsoring activities events. These events could include a speaker series,
3

ASC STRATEGIC PLAN FY 2018-2021
shows and concerts. The ASC will work within the academic calendar to
present stimulating events for our students (e.g., coffees from around the
world at mid-term time) or weekends.
GOAL 4: Fund Student Scholarships and Internships
The ASC understands the price of books can be a major financial obstacle for
students and is currently working with the College Bookstore and the Old
Westbury Foundation to fund $7,500 for book scholarships. Through
proactive work with our vendors and combining funds, starting AY 2019/20,
the ASC will increase book scholarships from $7,500 to $10,000, and then to
$12,500 in AY 2020/21.
In addition, supporting students with paid internships greatly benefit them by
providing real world work experience and help in building their resumes. The
ASC, working with Old Westbury departments, will develop a program to fund
up to five student internships starting AY2020/21, then increase funding for an
additional five by 2021/22.
We appreciate the assistance given by the ASC board members and staff in the
preparation of this plan.

2018-19 - Board of Directors
Arthur Angst
Len Davis
Bright Emenike
Jason Kaloudis
Roger Mayer
Mona Rankin
Werner Sbaschnik
Emily Vezzi

Mary D’Antonio
Wayne Edwards
Bria Joseph
William Kimmins
Lorenz Neuwirth
Evan Rufrano
Ranya Sergany
Nicholas Werner

Officers
Arthur Angst, President
Mary D’Antonio, Vice President
Len Davis, Treasurer
Carol Kaunitz, Executive Director
Approved:December 10, 2018

4

ASC STRATEGIC PLAN FY 2018-2021
Attachment 1

5