STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY 

 

Faculty Senate Meeting 

Friday, Feb 04, 2022  

12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.  

 

ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND 

Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at: 

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive 

MINUTES

Call to Order							

Roster of Senators Present: Jennie D'Ambroise (CHAIR), Runi Mukherji (VCHAIR | Senator At-large SAS | USENALT), Maureen Dolan (PARL), Deepa Jani (ECATL1 | ATL SAS 2), Robert Mevissen (SECTRS | HP ALT), Laurie Morris (USEN), Dana Sinclair (ECATL2 | LI | APPC), Laura Anker (FY), Renu Balyan (M&CS), Llana Barber (AS), Rachel Brown Littenberg (Professional), Lisa Chin (ATL SAS3), Jillian Crocker (ARPT), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRR Committee), Bright Emenike (CP), Lina Gilic (ATL SOE | EE), Eric Hagan (VA), Curtis Holland (SY), Rachel Kalish (ALT TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Danielle Lee (LEC), Edislav Manetovic (PEL), Renee Markowicz (SOE CE), Lorenz Neuwirth (FUAC), Christos Noutsos (BS), Patrick O’Brien (ATL SOB), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA1), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Jessica Williams (EN), Sara Williamson (MMF), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP)

Alternate Senators Present: Solomon Chak (BS), Svetlana Jovic (PY), Roger Mayer (AC)

Non-voting Members: Timothy Sams (PRES), Duncan Quarless (PROV/AVP), Jo-Ann Robinson (VPEXEC), Martha Santana (CFO), Thomas Lilly (DSAS), Shalei Simms (DSOB), Monica Calzolari (VPEnroll), Usama Shaikh (VPDEI), Jeffrey Fischer-Smith (VPIA)

Visitors: Cynthia Aenderson, Ozgur Akgun, Jermaine Archer, Patrick Cadet, Penny Chin, Antonia DiGregorio, Wayne Edwards, Ruomei Gao, Keisha Goode, Ricky Guerra, Patty Harris, Barbara Hillery, Marissa Hoffmann, Chante Hope, Denee Jenkins, Annette Johnson, Pritpal Kainth, Michael Kavic, Youngjoo Kim, Evan Kobolakis, Ashlee Lien, Joe Manfredi, Claudia Marin Andrade,  Dinorah Martinez, Orquidea Morales, Yogesh More, Yumi Nicholson, Cris Notaro, Lisa Payton, Lisandra Ramos, Courtney Raeford, Shebuti Rayana, Rebecca Rothe, Regina Scarbrough, Lori Zaikowski

Roster of Senators Absent: Erik Benau (PY), Seirrah Brown (SGA2), Hana Elgoarany (SGA 3 | APR), Linval Franzer (AC), Chris Hartmann (TLRC), Martha Livingston (PH), Xavier Marechaux (SOE AE), Elizabeth Morphis (TLRC | SL), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLC), Sheyi Oladipo (APR), 

Approval of Minutes for Dec 10, 2021

Minutes were approved with unanimous consent		

Faculty Senate Chair’s Report (J. D’Ambroise)

FS Meetings: Do we want to maintain online FS meetings? We normally have such a small number of people, it doesn’t seem to justify the work to set up the room. Email the chair regarding preference

PRODiG: Two tenured faculty vacancies on PRODiG Committee – contact Chair if interested

Retaining underrepresented minorities faculty and staff

Membership not fully determined – perhaps elections. But vacancies are just appointed this semester on a temporary basis 

Hanover: what are faculty interested in learning about market-driven research

Got Provost’s talking points and Executive Committee reformulated with questions and more detailed points. We will go to Hanover with our agendas and we’ll wait to see how they respond

We’re collecting feedback from faculty for the initial questions/agenda. We’ll come back to faculty once we collect your data. Then we’ll present to Hanover and once we hear back from Hanover regarding how to approach these topics, we’ll get additional feedback from faculty 

Niche Markets for Enrollment

Adult enrollment

Modality 

Marketing and 

Questions

Alireza Ebrahimi: does this refer to Saturday/Sunday? Adult learning? Evening? 

Response: We can distinguish between these types of students when we talk to Hanover 

Laurie: traditional-aged student is declining, 25-44 is adult learning, and Life-long learners. We want to know what adult learners we can target (message, outreach)

Jon Kleinman: what about career-changing (Mental Health Grad Program seems to attract a lot of people). Health careers (doctors, nursing, healthcare) and we suggest Bio, but perhaps something more concrete will 

Response: partnering with other programs may help, how do we benefit from part-time students? 

Cross registration 

Sabbaticals: there was a report sent out regarding request approval and denials

One concern was that full-year was prioritized over semester-long sabbaticals  

President’s Report (T. Sams)

Return to green status: our assessment of which area to go in based on data, we will go to GREEN engagement on Feb 10

Tweaking instruments so we are using best data to inform these practices

Community conversations: 

Monthly presidential Conversation (Feb 9): OW Model 🡪 moving away from Residential College model. We need a different term (this may change). Want to explain OW Model in connection of Black History Month – how does this inform our activities 

Student Developmental Collections (Feb 7): Student Affairs, FYE and Second-Year Experience. How do students understand our mission. We want to understand shortcomings. We will focus on “Inclusive wellbeing” 

School-based lectures (Feb 23 - Karl Grossman) – these lectures helps to guide how our mission informs our identity/work. 

Clark Athletics Center: working with NY DOE – to give back space of Athletic Center. Uptick in cases would likely affect our access 

Around Feb 14: students should be able to regain access. We won’t have the gym (basketball and volleyball), but we will have the rest of the athletic center 

Hope to regain space in summer so students have full access in the fall

Introduction of Jeffrey Fischer-Smith: institutional advancement – Jeff has 25 years of experience in senior management – getting resources to advance mission 

His experience runs through every area – institutional R1, museums, art institutions, a seminary, cancer research centers. 

Faculty Wellness Lounge site: where can we place this? NSB or NAB? A space for folks to re-center

Questions

Runi Mukherji: Is there space for former faculty to speak at the Presidential conversations? 

Response: absolutely. At the presidential inauguration, wants his vision to resonate with the college mission 

Laura Anker: the second lecture from students is talk “Dreamers and Doers” about immigration and path to citizenship 

Alireza Ebrahimi: thank president for wellness lounge. Want a place to have food or service and computers, see each other 

President Sams: Yes, concern of great resignation of faculty. We need to support through these periods 

Provost’s Report (D. Quarless)

Enrollment/registration: 4,100 students. Thank everyone for their contributions. Trying to avoid losing students by cancellation in Add/Drop period 

Faculty sabbaticals: full-time half pay vs. one semester full pay. At beginning of pandemic, very strict financial measures. Only three approvals last year. With Provost, Deans, we granted 19 out 24 sabbaticals. 7/8 full year half pay. 12/16 half-year full pay. Looked at the criteria of the letter sent out. Many granted to those who have not received yet, many received if need to finish books (for those who had already secured contracts). 

Faculty Development Grants: 15/24 applications were funded ($44,178). 5-person panel to decide. 

Honors Convocation/Commencement: got an RSVP for commencement. Committee is getting out communications next week. If anyone needs regalia, contact Provost. Identify students (particularly Honors convocation). Appreciated last year in graduation recognition ceremonies – two faculty co-chairs of commencement group (Wayne Edwards and Laura Anker), we may request others to serve as co-chairs and they help assist 

Hanover: 

March 8 Cabinet meeting – there will be deliberations determining the next project for Hanover. 

Branding/marketing may be the next one up, but that’s not resolved. 

EC has discussed programs that are listed as online/remote degree programs in addition to current face-to-face. This would help- we only have one degree program for online modality (M.S. Accounting). Looking at the cost-related elements of hybrid program- students who opted to do online would not be able to complete in one year. To manage resources for hybrid – needed flexibility of online/in-person courses.

Partner development and growing enrollment are the goals

These are niche – we want to improve access (and affordability) to our programs 

Also appreciation for thematic elements of who we are – what is or can be our signature programming? 

Budget:

Academic Affairs still addressing but what we’re doing to foster student success includes: Targeting recruitment and enrollment of students

5400 students by fall 2022 – this would better serve students (broader outreach of mission) and achieve financial stability 

Reached 4,122 students. In context of strategic plan, this is low

Other than personnel services, roughly 60% helps manage library (databases, services, instruction and research). Asked Director to help curb costs if we can, 

Course evaluation system (Blue) possible ways to save

General Education Curriculum implementation: will update at next FS meeting to get on timeline 

Brightspace (D2L): talk at Provost meeting

EIT: working with vendor to get content EIT accessibility score higher 

Questions

Laurie Morris: if we’re at 99.5% of enrollment targets, where does that leave us in SUNY Central’s estimation?

Response: yes, we don’t want to overestimate our goals – tried to be aspirational but with understanding that we’re technical below what we would have wanted as a headcount target. We will be held accountable for meeting our operational needs without their proportional support  

UUP Report (M Livingston)

N/A

ARPT Annual Report (J. Crocker)

Thanked to ARPT committee 

Mid-career and senior-level faculty would be helpful. 5/7 positions are reserved for tenured faculty 

No disagreements

Transition to electronic review process (Interfolio): meets needs of faculty and fulfills requirements 

Motion to receive report (seconded)

Accepted by unanimous consent 

Questions:

Alireza Ebrahimi: when it came to faculty rights and responsibilities – when you come to this agreement?

Response: if disagreements, we discuss and votes, we document

LEC  Annual Report (D. Lee)

Thanked LEC members, particularly Ashlee and Ryoko for guidance

8 new course designations, 

LEAP + transition – slightly derailed with the new GenEd 

New time lime for implementation ready for next FS meeting

Clarifying what each branch of assessment means – beyond Middle States

CLOSING the loop discussions 

Plans: mapping mostly done, and 5-year assessment plan already introduced 

Motion to receive report (seconded)

Accepted by unanimous consent 

IX. Co-directors of Academic Assessment Report (A. Lien, R. Yamamoto)

Assessment: spring assessment of multiple domains (Ashlee Lien)

Syllabus review and learning outcome (Foreign Languages, Creativity and the Arts, and Social Sciences)

Sample reviews but have not contacted faculty – 

LEC voting on changes to sampling of courses – 100% for critical thinking would be ALL courses

Discussing new criteria for meeting 

LEC will reach out to chairs and departments affected 

Assessment Fellow program (Ryoko)

Keystone of SAS to address Middle States feedback – one-year program to transition to the assessment system

Assessment fellows are trained in skills and have departmental connections – share information with department and lead our training for new assessment practices  

Overview of what topics the assessment fellows have learned about and what assignments the fellows have brought to departments’ attention

Setting up calendar –when does everything need to be done? We need to know when the assessment data is placed in system to analyze 

Data suggests this is successful but more training is necessary for fellows (and the workload is hard on fellows)

Concern/discussion over alignment and coordination with the college – particularly emphasized by Middle States

Final take-away: what assessment do we want? What do we want out of this? It is not just compliance, so we need messaging to reflect this. We also need more coordinators – for each program rather than each department (which leads to inequalities in departments with lots of programs) 

SGA Report (O. Ogunlade)

Recently notified that will host “mandatory” campaign for student activity fee

Elections occurring soon – email SGA for recommendations of students

20 positions open – paid (2.5 senator, 2.75 GPA)

Meeting with provost, meeting with police chief, and Claudia Neuman (Newman) to ensure pantry has consist funding 

Questions:

Alireza Ebrahimi: is there a way to reach out to students outside campus? Get good mixture for SGA. What is strategy?

Response: we want good representation. Voted for two new positions: historian position – keeping record of relationships and graduate student member to broaden reach. Advisor has also made announcement in the fliers that are available to all students

Rebecca Rothe: share event about Tao Sigma

Community beach cleanup (Sat April 16 – 9 am) 

Collect donation for recyclable bottles and cans 

3 awards/grants going out to faculty – access to awards if you want to put on programing 				

Adjournment

Agreed by unanimous consent