SUNY Micro‐Credentialing
Task Force
Report and Recommendations
January 2018

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.

Introduction……………………..………………………………………………………………………………….…………

1

II.

What are Micro‐Credentials?...........................................................................................

2

Recommended SUNY Micro‐Credential Definition………………………………..…………………….

3

III.

Guiding Principles for Micro‐Credentials at SUNY…………..………………………………………..

4

IV.

Common Types of Micro‐Credentials…………………….……………………………………………………

6

V.

How are Micro‐Credentials Used Across SUNY Now?..................................................

11

VI.

How are Micro‐Credentials Used Nationally?...............................................................

13

VII.

Best Practices to Consider When Developing Micro‐Credentials…………………...………

16

VIII.

Program Approval and Micro‐Credentials………………………………………………………………….

19

IX.

Who Should be Involved in Developing Micro‐Credentials?...................................

20

X.

Recommendations………………………………………………………………………………………………………...

22

Appendix A: Glossary of Terms……………………………………………………………………………………….………..

26

Appendix B: Electronic Transcripts…………………………………………………………………………………………..

28

Appendix C: Resources……………………………………………………………………………………….……………………..

31

Appendix D: Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Members…………………..…………………………………..

34

I.

INTRODUCTION

Today’s employers are increasingly looking for candidates with more than a college degree;
they are seeking individuals with detailed and easily accessible credentials that verify skill
competencies specific to their hiring needs. In response, institutions of higher education are
embracing the micro‐credential as a means of both meeting business and industry expectations
and supporting and preparing well‐rounded students with highly marketable skills.
As the pace of technological developments continues to increase, higher education has a
responsibility to provide cutting‐edge teaching and learning that prepares students for the
workforce. A combination of applied learning experiences, credentialing, and a quality degree
stack the competencies needed for graduates to succeed in today’s highly competitive job
market. Further, we know that micro‐credentials can contribute to lifelong learning and
professional development. As higher education and industry work together to bridge the gap of
student preparedness for the workforce, the micro‐credential adds a stackable skill set to the
foundational college degree.
The SUNY system should emerge as a leader in affirming the credibility of quality micro‐
credentialing. Industry has already ventured into this domain; however, higher education plays
a critical role in validating the student learning outcomes associated with micro‐credentials.
SUNY can ensure academic rigor, faculty engagement, organization, and a common language as
it accepts the task of framing the high‐quality micro‐credential.

About the Micro‐Credentialing Task Force
The SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force (“Task Force”) was charged with the following:
1. Review of the current literature and growing national dialogue on micro‐credentials,
including evidence‐based best practices and ongoing efforts to define and translate
micro‐credentials;
2. Examine work currently underway across SUNY’s 64 campuses to develop and/or
implement micro‐credentials; and
3. Review of relevant SUNY policies, with the goal of identifying possible barriers, as well
as potential opportunities for renewed policy, to enable campuses to more effectively
support student access and success through micro‐credentialing.
The Task Force membership included broad representation from across SUNY: presidents,
provosts, faculty governance, student governance, registrars, business officers, institutional
researchers, and continuing education officers (see Appendix D).

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

1

From the start, the Task Force acknowledged the potential of micro‐credentials to:


enable campuses to more quickly respond to student needs and industry demands;



establish new academic/industry partnerships;



motivate students to persist toward academic and career goals; and



bridge noncredit and credit‐bearing coursework and experiences.

These are all efforts that support SUNY’s ongoing commitment to providing New Yorkers with
the credentials they need to continue their education, find a job and/or advance in their
careers. Central to the work of the Task Force is SUNY’s ongoing commitment to ensuring
academic rigor and quality of all credentials offered by SUNY.

II.

WHAT ARE MICRO‐CREDENTIALS?

At the most basic level, micro‐credentials verify,
validate, and attest that specific skills and/or
competencies have been achieved. They differ
from traditional degrees and certificates in that
they are generally offered in shorter or more
flexible timespans and tend to be more narrowly
focused. Micro‐credentials can be offered online,
on‐campus, or via a hybrid of both.
Despite national efforts by Lumina and others to
establish universal definitions around micro‐
credentialing, there remain inconsistencies. The
Task Force has provided a comprehensive
definition of terms (see Appendix A) that it
recommends be used to provide a consistent
taxonomy across SUNY. However, nationally,
terms are often used interchangeably. For
example, badging, a type of micro‐credential, is
often used synonymously with the term micro‐
credential itself.

Micro‐Credential Benefits
 Motivate students toward completion of a

credential or degree program by
highlighting progressive attainment of
competencies.
 Support academic/industry partnerships

through credentials that meet industry
requirements and/or are designed to
meet a specific need.
 Provide more specificity to potential

employers about skills and competencies
learned.
 Supplement an existing degree program

with complementary skill sets.
 Ladder from noncredit to credit.
 Ladder from a stand‐alone credential to a

degree program.
 Provide short‐term, immediate

competency development opportunities
valuable for ongoing professional
development.

Notably absent from most definitions of micro‐credentials, perhaps because they are offered
within and outside of the University setting, is recognition of faculty purview over curriculum
and standards. The Task Force addresses this specifically, seeking to ensure that the awarding
of micro‐credentials across SUNY is consistent with the University’s commitment to shared
governance, particularly, the role and responsibility of the faculty.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

2

Also missing from most definitions is specific recognition of students’ best interests. Given the
wide variety of micro‐credentials that can be offered, campuses hold a particular responsibility
to provide clarity about what any given micro‐credential is and is not. Clarity regarding cost,
eligibility for financial aid, transferability, competencies mastered, and applicability to a degree
program are examples of issues that must be addressed. If a micro‐credential is a partial
representation of the set of courses within one or more credit‐bearing curricula, students
should be made aware of all options to stack the credential(s) toward a registered certificate or
degree program.
As a result, this Task Force recommends the following definition of micro‐credentials,
and associated taxonomy of terms, for use across SUNY:

Recommended SUNY Micro‐Credential Definition
SUNY Micro‐Credential Definition:
Micro‐credentials verify, validate and attest that specific skills and/or
competencies have been achieved and are endorsed by the issuing institution,
having been developed through established faculty governance processes and
designed to be meaningful and high quality.
Expanded Detail:
Micro‐credentials may represent the content of credit or noncredit study; they
may take the form of a digital badge or micro‐award, and can be offered
online, on‐campus, or a hybrid of both. Micro‐credentials may be specifically
recognized by certain industries, in which case they may have the advantage of
providing validation and attestation of industry‐specified and frequently highly
sought‐after competencies.
Each micro‐credential awarded must be represented clearly and accurately,
addressing all associated costs, financial aid, transferability, and applicability
(e.g., stack‐ability) toward a formal award(s) (i.e., registered degree,
certificate).
Micro‐credentials can be used to highlight competencies earned as part of a
credit‐bearing program (motivating students to persist and distinguishing
students among prospective employers); serve as an introduction or entry point
to a degree program (stackable); be issued as a stand‐alone credential and/or
complement a degree program (e.g., an English major may benefit from a
micro‐credential in computer science; a computer science major may benefit
from a micro‐credential in business writing; a computer science alum may
SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

3

benefit from a micro‐credential on the newest programming language; and/or
an education major may seek continuing professional development via a micro‐
credential, etc.).
Taxonomy of Terms:
To provide the SUNY community with a common taxonomy around micro‐
credentials, a list of definitions for common micro‐credentialing terms is
provided as Appendix A of this report. This list may be expanded or revised over
time and will be maintained online at: http://system.suny.edu/academic‐
affairs/microcredentials.

III.

GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR CREATING MICRO‐CREDENTIALS AT SUNY

The principles outlined below guided the work of the Task Force and also constitute Task Force
recommendations to guide the development of micro‐credentials at SUNY.
1. Academic quality is paramount for micro‐credentials, and faculty governance
participation is required.
SUNY micro‐credentials must meet high standards of academic rigor. Appropriate
channels for shared governance must be employed for credit‐bearing micro‐credentials
to enjoy legitimate, academic status. Thus, curriculum committees and/or local faculty
governance bodies must be involved in the development and approval of micro‐
credentials, as appropriate at each campus, and consistent with SUNY policy and New
York State regulations.
2. Micro‐credentials are initiated locally, developed, and approved according to local
campus policies and procedures, consistent with campus mission and strategic goals.
Part of the power of micro‐credentials is that they take advantage of local opportunities
and local expertise. Campuses are encouraged to develop micro‐credentials that serve
their local constituencies, rather than appeal to a generic, standardized set of goals. The
Task Force does strongly recommend that campuses consult with their liaison in the
SUNY System Program Review and Planning Office when developing micro‐credentials.
3. Micro‐credentials designed to meet market needs should be informed by current data
from appropriate markets and align with relevant industry/sector standards.
The power of micro‐credentials—open digital badges, in particular—is in their ability to
easily showcase to employers the skills and competencies of applicants. Because they
SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

4

generally align to specific market needs, data regarding those needs and industry
standards should be incorporated into micro‐credential planning and development.
4. Micro‐credentials can provide opportunities for industry/education connections and
partnerships.
Because micro‐credentials are intended to highlight specific skills and competencies,
they should be created with substantial input from industry partners and other
employers whenever possible. These might include meeting with representatives of
business and industry and soliciting initial ideas from local employers. Micro‐credentials
are most successful when they are reflections of academy‐industry partnerships.
5. Micro‐credentials are inherently more flexible and innovative.
As they are smaller‐scale than full degrees, micro‐credentials have fewer standardized
requirements. Thus, micro‐credentials often more easily lend themselves to innovation.
Micro‐credentials may lead to creation of new, creative courses and programs. They can
meet market needs with responsiveness, agility, and dexterity. Micro‐credentials can
take advantage of unique partnerships and technology.
6. Micro‐credentials should be portable.
A micro‐credential should be useful beyond the particular context in which it was
earned. That is, micro‐credentials should assist students in earning employment (or
advancement) in a particular field and/or should count toward a higher‐level credential
that may be delivered at the same or other academic institutions. Portability applies to
the usefulness of the credential in the workplace and to its transferability.
7. Micro‐credentials should be stackable.
Micro‐credentials should stack toward a registered certificate or degree. Stackable
credentials are part of a sequence of credentials that can be accumulated over time to
build up an individual’s qualifications and help that individual move along a career
pathway and further education.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

5

IV.

COMMON TYPES OF MICRO‐CREDENTIALS

Digital Badges
The term ‘micro‐credential’ is often used interchangeably with the terms ‘badge,’ or ‘digital
badge,’ as badges are one of the most common types of micro‐credentials issued today.
Badges represent mastery of specific skills and competencies, earned by meeting specific
learning outcomes.
They are generally web‐based and “clickable,” linking viewers to
extensive meta‐data that provides detail on requirements for earning
the badge. The most effective badges link to actual student work or
portfolios of work as well as the assessments used to verify
competencies. Badges should always be verifiable, including a link to
the relevant webpages on the issuer’s website.
One of the reasons badges have gained popularity is that they can be
displayed online in personal pages on LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook,
etc. There are a number of companies who host badges such as
Credly, Mozilla Backpack, Accredible, GlobalSign,1 etc.

A screen shot of a badge
offered by Stony Brook
University in Design Thinking
(http://www.stonybrook.edu/c
ommcms/spd/badges/catalog.
php).

Several SUNY campuses have begun to offer badges. Stony Brook
University has developed a catalogue of badges; some are noncredit
for professional development purposes, while others award graduate credits and can be used
toward a graduate certificate or degree program. Students not enrolled in the related degree
program need departmental permission. For example, Stony Brook’s graduate level “Social
Entrepreneurship Badge” demonstrates that a student has completed three for‐credit courses
covering specific skill sets in the areas of entrepreneurship, leadership, team effectiveness,
communications, advocacy, marketing, etc. In this case, the stackable credential can stand on
its own as a value‐added credential for students or professionals, or it can also be applied (once
admitted) toward an advanced graduate certificate and then toward a master’s degree. Receipt
of the initial credential (the badge) may motivate students to continue toward completion of
the certificate or degree.
A number of SUNY campuses award badges for student participation in extra‐curricular
activities or to recognize meritorious achievement. The Task Force recommends that campuses
be careful to differentiate between badges that represent completion of learning standards
(the focus of this report) and those that reflect service.

1

Mention here in no way constitutes an endorsement. Company names are provided for informational purposes.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

6

Stackable Credentials
Stackable credentials can be earned over time and serve as a bridge or ladder to advance
individuals toward a degree, further career goals, or open up new job opportunities. Unlike the
transition from the associate degree to the baccalaureate, stackable credentials are generally
offered in smaller pieces, on flexible schedules, and via non‐traditional modalities. Credentials
can be stacked on top of one another to achieve the student’s overall goals.

For Credit
As these courses are part of approved degree programs, much in the way a minor would be
developed, they do not require NYSED registration. However, the Task Force does strongly
recommend that campuses consult with their liaison in the SUNY System Program Review and
Planning Office when developing micro‐credentials, as discussed in Section VII of this report.
Stony Brook University, as noted above, offers both for‐credit and professional development
badges (http://www.stonybrook.edu/spd/badges/index). One example is Stony Brook’s
“Corporate Financial Management Badge,” comprised of two courses: FIN 552 Mergers &
Acquisitions and FIN 536 Financial Management, for which students earn graduate credit. The
badge can stand on its own or stack toward a finance or MBA degree. Students not in Stony
Brook’s Finance Advanced Graduate Certificate or MBA program need consent of the program
director to register.

Noncredit‐to‐Credit Pathways
Some stackable credentials provide pathways from noncredit to credit, allowing students to
develop competencies within industry‐related areas and then continue on in a degree program.
Noncredit micro‐credentials are best developed with consultation between continuing
education professionals and faculty in the relevant field, with input from industry or community
partners. To that end, existing SUNY policy expects academic consultation and shared
governance procedures for noncredit courses and credentials that articulate to a credit‐bearing
course or credential. The initial determination of whether a micro‐credential may be credit‐
bearing must be determined by faculty in the relevant field. If the credential is thus determined
to be credit‐bearing, then ultimate approval of the course or credential should emanate from a
curriculum committee or similar academic governance body.
SUNY campus examples of noncredit‐to‐credit articulation follow. Note that these could also be
classified as a career pathway approach to micro‐credentials:

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

7

1. At SUNY Orange, after successful completion of the A+ Computer Repair Technician
curriculum and obtaining industry certification, there is an articulation with the Applied
Technician Department to receive college credit.
2. Certified Production Technician is approved for three credits in SUNY Ulster’s Industrial
Design and Manufacturing Certificate program.
3. SUNY Sullivan developed and piloted a Hospitality bridge program with a 2015‐16 SUNY
Workforce Development demonstration grant. The hospitality faculty have proposed
that graduates of that program be granted one credit if they subsequently matriculate
into a hospitality‐related certificate or degree program at Sullivan.
4. At Dutchess Community College, there is an articulation agreement for the HSE
Construction Skills Program for four credits into its associate degree program in
Construction Management, provided that students complete the skills certificate.
Many SUNY institutions have articulation agreements with Boards of Cooperative Educational
Services (BOCES), which grant credit for noncredit work assessed by faculty to be equivalent.

Massive Open Online Course (MOOC)
According to Educause, a massive open online course (MOOC) is a model for delivering learning
content online to any person who wants to take a course, with no limit on class size. A MOOC in
and of itself is not a micro‐credential; however, MOOCs have become popular delivery vehicles
for micro‐credentials. SUNY has established a relationship with Coursera to support faculty
interested in offering MOOCS, see: https://www.coursera.org/suny; and,
(http://commons.suny.edu/opensuny/mooc‐faq/).
A group of six University at Buffalo professors, for example, partnered with the Chicago‐based,
public/private partnership, Digital Manufacturing and Design innovation Institute (DMDII), to
design a “Digital Manufacturing & Design Technology Specialization” delivered by MOOC. This
10‐course MOOC, which students can take in the suggested order or as they prefer, includes a
series of project‐based assignments. Participating students receive a course completion
designation that can be featured in a resume or LinkedIn.
UB describes the specialization as appropriate for a wide audience, “Whether you’re a high
school graduate exploring manufacturing careers, or an operations manager hungry for an
understanding of the newest manufacturing technologies, this specialization will provide a
foundation in how digital advances are changing the landscape and capabilities of factories. Ten
courses – developed with input from the manufacturing industry – touch on digital
manufacturing and design practices, the concept of the digital thread, the Internet of Things
and Big Data.”
SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

8

Another example of a noncredit micro‐credential delivered by MOOC is at SUNY is Buffalo State
College’s, “Ignite Your Everyday Creativity.” The six‐week program recognizes that: “Creativity
is an essential skill for the 21st Century that is innate in all people and can be nurtured...The
goal of this course is to help you recognize, develop and act upon the creativity that you already
possess...Upon completion of this course participants will: recognize the inherent creativity in
yourself and others, identify characteristics of a creative person that relate to yourself, develop
creative problem‐solving skills using the basic elements of the creative process, examine
qualities of a creative environment in real world settings, and evaluate an idea using the
creative product criteria.” Participating students receive a completion designation that can be
featured in a resume or LinkedIn.
Micro‐credentials delivered by MOOC can be important gateways to introduce a campus and its
faculty to entirely new audiences; generating interest for continued study.

Industry‐Recognized Credentials
Industry recognized credentials are a type of micro‐credential that can be incorporated into
relevant degree programs to add even more value to applied degrees and give students
additional portability of learning outcomes mastery.
These micro‐credentials are sought out by employers because they attest that students have
attained skills and knowledge that are verified by an assessment created by professionals in the
designated field. Students who attain these credentials can demonstrate that they have
mastered professional competencies, and colleges with high pass rates are viewed favorably by
industry. In many cases, faculty who have worked in industry bring these opportunities to
students because they recognize that attainment of these certifications gives students an
advantage in the job search.
For example, Alfred State faculty in many areas provide students with the opportunity to gain
industry certifications during their course of study. In the trades, welding students can
complete both level 1 and 2 from the American Welding Society, and automotive students can
gain American Service Excellence (ASE) Certification. Students at both associate and
baccalaureate level in Computer Information Technology can gain a broad range of
certifications including A+, Net+, CISCO, Microsoft, JAVA, CIW Web, CompTIA+, and COMP TIA
NW+. Finally, students in the civil engineering department can gain entry‐level certifications in
both surveying and construction management. In each case, employers can be confident that
Alfred State students have knowledge and skills that are critical to success in the industry.
Several SUNY institutions accept evaluated credits for professional training, licenses and
certifications that have been reviewed by the American Council on Education (ACE) (see
http://www.alternativecreditproject.com/) and the National College Credit Recommendation

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

9

Service (NCCRS) (see http://www.alternativecreditproject.com/). With an increased focus on
preparing students for the workforce, there is a demand for recognizing industry learning
within higher education.
Many institutions nationally assess workplace training, certifications and licenses for college
credit. SUNY Empire State College is one of six founding institutions for the Consortium for the
Assessment of College Equivalency (CACE), which has developed standards for the assessment
of workplace training and industry‐recognized credentials for college credit. The college has
many examples of assessing industry learning for credits and integrating these credits into the
curriculum. At Empire State, these are called Professional Learning Evaluations (PLE).

Licensure
In general, micro‐credentials are not licensure qualifying, meaning they don’t lead to initial
state licensure in a profession. However, micro‐credentials may help support ongoing
requirements for maintaining licensure, for example, in meeting continuing education
requirements for a given profession. In general, these types of credentials undergo professional
body review for Continuing Education Unit worthiness. Campuses are encouraged to confer
with the professional body and/or NYSED Office of the Professions.

Prior Learning Assessment and Micro‐credentials
Prior learning assessment is an academic process whereby verifiable learning acquired outside
of traditional learning environments is assessed for college‐level credit. Many methods can be
used to assess prior learning, such as:


Standardized examinations (e.g., CLEP, AP, DSST);



Military training and occupations evaluated by the American Council on Education
(ACE);



Industry training, certifications and licenses evaluated by ACE, National Credit
Recommendation Service (NCCRS), or regionally accredited institutions;



Individualized portfolio assessment conducted by faculty at an institution; and



Challenge examinations developed and assessed by faculty at an institution.

These approaches can also be used to evaluate learning acquired through micro‐credentials not
already assessed for college credit. A prior learning assessment process could be employed to
assess micro‐credentials to determine the level of learning, title of learning, credit amounts and
any other designations appropriate to the learning (e.g., liberal arts, advanced level).

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

10

The process by which prior learning assessment is conducted should be approved through
campus shared governance decision‐making.

V.

HOW ARE MICRO‐CREDENTIALS IN USE ACROSS SUNY NOW?

The Task Force conducted an informal survey of micro‐credential offerings across SUNY
campuses and found considerable variability. Some campuses focus on noncredit offerings,
some on credit‐bearing activity, and others on the articulation of noncredit to credit.
The following table summarizes the number of institutions across each sector offering various
types of alternative credentials, based on campus responses (39 responding):
Table 1: Number of Campuses within Sectors offering Alternative Credentials by Type
Industry
Certifications

Licensure
Related

Badges

Noncredit
Certifications

Community Colleges (n=16)

8

14

0

9

Colleges of Technology (n=4)

4

4

0

4

Comprehensive Colleges (n=8)

3

3

1

2

Doctoral Institutions (n=11)2

4

7

2

4

19

28

3

19

Total Institutions (N=39)

Total # of Campuses
Offering Each Type:

As shown in Table 1, the majority of industry certification (both credit and noncredit) and
licensure‐related micro‐credentials are offered through community colleges, although these
types of micro‐credentials can be found in all sectors.
Campus respondents indicated that most industry certifications and licensure‐related
credentials are directly connected to credit‐bearing academic programs. The number of
campuses awarding badges seems to be limited, with only three campuses reporting these
offerings.
2

Each one of the four New York State statutory colleges at Cornell University provided information and are
counted independently here.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

11

Table 2: Micro‐Credential Disciplinary Areas Reported by SUNY Campuses (n = 39)
Micro‐Credentials Areas

Industry
Certifications

Licensure
Related

Accounting
Building Trades

Badges

3
12

4

Business/Entrepreneurial

4

Computers, Networking, Engineering

12

4

Education

7

94

Engineering Fields
16

Human Resources

1

Industry Trades, Technology and Adv.
Manufacturing

17

Legal
Mental Health

3

Protective Services

5

71

19
7

15

25

Health Care

4
1

1

10

2

2
16

1

3

9

1
9

Quality Control
Safety

Noncredit
Certifications

8
3

8

Veterinary Sciences

4

Other

4

18
1

As shown in Table 2, SUNY campuses offer micro‐credentials across a wide range of disciplinary
areas.
The most common areas for Industry Certifications are in Industry Trades (including technology
and advanced manufacturing); Health Care; and Computers, Networking, and Engineering. The
majority of licensure‐related offerings are within Education and Health Care.
There are some licensure‐related micro‐credential offerings reported in the engineering fields.
Noncredit certifications were most commonly identified in Business/Entrepreneurial, Industry
Trades, and Health Care. Badges were most frequently reported in Education.
SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

12

VI.

HOW ARE MICRO‐CREDENTIALS USED NATIONALLY?

The following is a sampling of how micro‐credentials are currently being used across the
country. It is by no means a comprehensive list and is provided for informational purposes only.
Similar types of offerings may be found across SUNY campuses.

University‐Based


The University Learning Store (http://universitylearningstore.org/) is a collaboration
between the Georgia Institute of Technology; University of California, Davis; University
of California, Irvine; UCLA; University of Wisconsin‐Extension; and, University of
Washington Continuum College.
The University Learning Store offers skills‐focused, non‐credit, online‐learning
credentials that each have required assessments. From Communicating and Deliberating
in Work Teams to Creating a Stakeholder Management Plan for Projects, course options
are grouped into the following categories: Power Skills, Technical Skills, Career
Advancement, and Compliance (http://universitylearningstore.org/course/). Course‐
takers have the option to move straight to the assessment if they feel they have already
mastered the competencies. The awarded credential, which can be accessed online and
has a badge‐like appearance, contains a detailed summary of the skill‐sets mastered and
features the name of the partner university offering the course.
The University Learning Store offers two types of credentials, each available for $25:
“verified competency” represents completion of one badge assessment, and “skills
certifications” for completing a series of assessments
(http://universitylearningstore.org/faqs/). College credit is not currently available.



The University of Utah’s Degree Plus Certificates are noncredit credentials designed to
give graduates a skill‐set outside of their degree program that can help distinguish them
in the job market. The program webpage invites students to “take their history degree
into the creative fields of web design or digital marketing,” or to “discover that the
interests that led you to a degree in English may also be a great match for a career in operations
or project management (http://degreeplus.utah.edu/#programs).” Certificates are currently
offered in the following areas: Data Analysis for the Modern Workforce, Instructional Design,
Content Marketing and Management, Operations Analyst, and Digital Communication Tools for
Creative Professionals.
The program description for the Data Analysis for the Modern Workforce program, for example,
notes that data analysis is a field unto itself, yet recognizes that being able to interpret and
analyze data is considered a valuable skill in countless professions. The program runs for eight‐
weeks and includes a capstone project. Students who successfully complete the capstone

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

13

project and complete required one‐on‐one career counseling that advises them about how to
use the credential will earn a digital badge that can be displayed on various social media
platforms (http://degreeplus.utah.edu/certificate_programs/data‐analysis/).


Students in Purdue University’s online Master of Science in Education – Learning
Design and Technology have the opportunity to pursue a series of digital badges on
specific technology tools either for credit via a special one‐week, full‐day, three‐credit
course during the summer or noncredit on a self‐paced basis. Badges are available on a
wide range of technology tools including: Adobe Captivate and Premiere, Animoto,
Camtasia, Evernote, iMovie, Mendeley, Poll Everywhere, Prezi, Socrative and more. The
badges are kept in Passport, an e‐portfolio system, and can be displayed in Mozilla
Backpack, LinkedIn and Facebook (http://online.purdue.edu/ldt/learning‐design‐
technology/digital‐badges).



Earning admissions to the Illinois State Honors Program grants students access to an
electronic portfolio on Credly to showcase specific achievements and competencies
(https://honors.illinoisstate.edu/opportunities/badging/). Designed to build skill level
and motivate student progression, the badge program provides both stand‐alone and
stackable value. For example, students earn badges for completion of specialized one‐
credit Presidential Scholar Seminars on such topics as: Innovation and Inquiry;
Interdisciplinary Investigations; and Leadership in Action as well as completion of Honors
Experiences on topics such as Human and Computer Interaction, and the Legend of
Faust. Maintaining a certain GPA and completion of three Honors Learning Experiences
earns a Program Scholar badge. Badges can also be earned for international travel,
completing a series of Mindset seminars, and community service.



The University of Michigan has named its digital badging program “Mblem” and it
operates at the department or program levels. For example, the Engineering Program
of M‐STEM Academies developed a series of badges to “recognize, validate and share
undergraduate engineering students’ co‐curricular learning…”
(http://www.mblem.umich.edu/v/badges).
The department defined eight broad categories of badges: community service, cross‐
cultural experiences, entrepreneurial mindset, ethics, intellectual curiosity, leadership,
professional development, and science and engineering research
(http://www.mblem.umich.edu/v/badges). Mblems are stackable and recognize
different levels of competency. The badges are awarded after specific evidence has
been presented—written, video, or other forms of reflection; badges link to that
provided evidence. The University maintains a webpage for employers explaining their
value (http://www.mblem.umich.edu/v/employers).

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

14

Non‐Profit Partnerships with Higher Education


edX, founded and governed by colleges and universities, is a non‐profit entity that
supports the offering of MOOCs on an open‐access platform (https://www.edx.org/).
According to its website, edX now offers over 1,300 humanities, mathematics, and
computer science courses to more than 10 million individual leaders. Some courses are
offered at specific times and others are self‐paced. Some courses are credit‐eligible,
others lead to a verified digital certificate that can be included in a resume or on
LinkedIn. In addition, EdX offers over 30 MicroMaster’s programs—a name they have
trademarked—that can be stacked toward a degree (often requires some onsite work at
the instructing University).
Among edX’s 52 original founding university partners are MIT, Harvard, University of
California Berkeley, the University of Texas System, Arizona State University, the
University System of Maryland, and Cornell University. Membership has expanded to
include dozens more U.S. and international universities as well as for‐profit and non‐
profit partners who offer MOOCs including Amnesty International and Microsoft.



The non‐profit Digital Promise offers a series of micro‐credentials targeted at educators
that they categorize as “competency‐based recognition for professional learning”
(http://digitalpromise.org/initiative/educator‐micro‐credentials/). Each credential
focuses on a single competency and includes a scoring guide for “evidence” that must
be provided by the participant, including lesson plans, student‐work samples, and/or
classroom video.
Digital Promise recently partnered with a number of Universities to “offer graduate
level‐credit for select micro‐credentials.” Participating universities include: Fresno
Pacific University; Brandman University; Portland State University; and the University of
the Pacific (https://bloomboard.com/microcredential/provider/ac2f23c8‐274d‐449d‐
ac3f‐6ad29e399737).
The Micro‐Credential Advisory Board for Digital Promise includes representatives from
Stanford, the Center for Teaching Quality, the Tennessee Department of Education and
more (http://digitalpromise.org/initiative/educator‐micro‐credentials/micro‐
credentials‐advisory‐board/).

For‐Profit Offerings
Udacity is one example of many for‐profit credential providers. Its inclusion here is provided for
informational purposes to give a glimpse of the national for‐profit environment for micro‐
credentials.
SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

15



If students earning a Udacity Nanodegree Plus credential (Udacity has copyrighted the
term nanodegree) are not employed six months after graduation, they receive 100% of
their tuition back. There are four qualifying programs: Machine Learning Engineer; Full
Stack Web Developer; Becoming an iOS Developer; and Data Analyst. All Udacity nano‐
degree programs are co‐created via partnerships with two or three well‐known industry
partners such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, IBM, nvidia, and DiDi
(https://www.udacity.com/nanodegree/plus).
Successful completion of one of the Nanodegree Plus programs earns students a job‐
ready project portfolio and a “verified nanodegree credential.” There are some pre‐
requisites and requirements to qualify for the plus guarantee including beginning
experiences in the programming language Python as well as Git for version control (if
you don’t have that experience Udacity offers options for getting it), a computer with a
broadband connection, and English fluency. There are also terms and conditions related
to the rigor of the participant’s job search (https://www.udacity.com/nanodegree/plus).
Udacity offers a range of non‐Plus programs as well, both full‐immersion and self‐paced
programs, as well as project‐based free courses (https://www.udacity.com). Udacity
posts a candidate profile for each student noting their credentials and linking to work
product that can be accessed by potential employers through Talent Source, a
proprietary directory (http://blog.udacity.com/2016/04/how‐your‐new‐udacity‐profile‐
can‐get‐you‐a‐job.html).

VII.

BEST PRACTICES TO CONSIDER WHEN DEVELOPING MICRO‐CREDENTIALS

According to the American Council on Education’s report Quality Dimensions for Connected
Credentials (http://www.acenet.edu/news‐room/Documents/Quality‐Dimensions‐for‐
Connected‐Credentials.pdf), the six dimensions of quality that support connected credentials
are the inter‐related concepts of transparency, modularity, portability, relevance, validity, and
equity, which the Task Force has summarized below:


Transparency ‐ This includes, for the benefit of a perspective employer and the student,
clearly defining competencies (knowledge and specialized skills, soft skills such as
written and verbal communication, teamwork, independent work, research, etc.). In
addition, all possible connections from a given micro‐credential to others should be
highlighted, i.e., a path to earn credit, a path to another credential, entry into a degree
program, etc.



Modularity ‐ This is the important feature that the credential can be stackable, that
additional credentials can be added to offer value.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

16



Portability ‐ Portability is essentially effort to ensure that the credential has value
locally, nationally and/or beyond. The transferring of credit or noncredit micro‐
credentials follows SUNY Policy 1008 Transfer and Articulation and MTP 13‐3 Seamless
Transfer.
Within SUNY, the Task Force notes that the articulation of noncredit to credit needs to
involve the evaluation of learning outcomes, i.e., not be awarded for the experience
alone. The process for articulating noncredit to credit is an academic process and
should be conducted through established shared governance procedures within the
institution.



Relevance ‐ One of the key discussions of the Task Force was that micro‐credentials at
SUNY should be meaningful, providing benefit to students that helps them to advance
their educational, professional and/or life goals. SUNY micro‐credentials should add
sufficient value that they are respected and recognized by relevant stakeholders, from
the campus community to perspective employers.



Validity ‐ Development of micro‐credentials must take into consideration the means by
which validity can be confirmed; much in the way that employers or academic
institutions seek to confirm degree attainment, micro‐credentials must also be
verifiable. In the discussion above on badges, the inclusion of meta‐data tied to distinct
learning outcomes mastered and links to the institution are listed as ways to establish
both relevance and validity. For other types of micro‐credentials, there should also be
documented assessment of learning outcomes and means of assessment. The ACE
report, Quality Dimensions for Connected Credentials, recommends consideration of
what it refers to as predictive validity and concurrent validity (Everhart, Ganzglass,
Casilli, Hickey, and Muramatsu, 2016). ACE definitions are provided here in their entirety
for reference:
-

Predictive Validity: “There is evidence that the claims made by the credential have
been borne out in reality. This means that there is evidence that the assessments for
attaining the credential accurately predict an individual’s ability to do something in
the future, on the job, or in a community of practice. Evidence of predictive validity
is typically gathered by studying whether individuals who earn a passing score on an
assessment or who earn the credential actually know or can actually accomplish
what was claimed.”

-

Concurrent Validity: “There is parallel evidence supporting the claims made in the
credential. Evidence of concurrent validity is typically gathered by looking at other
sources of evidence that the individual knows something documented in an
assessment and/or can carry out the job claimed by the credential.”

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

17



Equity ‐ Because micro‐credentials can be used as a means to provide a pathway into
for‐credit coursework and/or job advancement, there should be appropriate supports to
ensure that all students have an equal opportunity to succeed.

The Task Force offers the following additional guidance regarding transparency and portability
for SUNY micro‐credentials:


Tuition ‐ For credit‐bearing micro‐credentials, tuition will be charged at the current
approved rate for all other credit‐bearing offerings. For noncredit micro‐credentials,
tuition is charged based on standard noncredit practices at the campus. Total costs
should be made public and easily accessible.



Transfer ‐ The articulation of noncredit to credit needs to involve the evaluation of
learning outcomes and not be awarded for experience alone. The process for
articulating noncredit to credit is an academic process and should be conducted through
established shared governance procedures within the institution. The transferring of
credit or noncredit micro‐credentials follows SUNY Policy 1008 Transfer and Articulation
and MTP 13‐3 Seamless Transfer.



Transcripts ‐ Issues of transcript development for micro‐credentials and industry‐
recognized credentials, as well as noncredit‐to‐credit pathways need to be addressed to
facilitate portability of these credentials. New initiatives have been launched by a
variety of colleges and universities across the nation for the purpose of developing a
comprehensive student record (CSR), a digitized format that aims to expand beyond the
traditional chronological transcript record of course titles, credits, and grades by
documenting validated evidence of a student’s learning outcomes, competencies, and
related learning outside the classroom. Appendix B highlights multiple examples for
review.



Marketing ‐ Because of the varying definitions around micro‐credentials, campuses
should strive for clarity and transparency in their marketing efforts. Policies, procedures
and criteria applied to micro‐credentials, such as fee structure and any pertinent
financial aid information, should be accurately described, fully disclosed, and
prominently available to prospective and enrolled students (as well as faculty and staff
involved in the assessment process), and be included in academic catalogs and on
college websites.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

18

VIII. PROGRAM APPROVALS AND MICRO‐CREDENTIALS
Since all academic offerings—credit, noncredit, full programs, or partial programs—are subject
to SUNY Board of Trustees policy, New York State rules and regulations, federal laws, and
regional accreditation standards, care must be taken in their development and implementation.
Review and approval of noncredit micro‐credentials is largely local, must adhere to campus
faculty governance procedures for approval as well as course evaluation and prior learning
assessment protocols, and be entirely consistent with SUNY policies and state and federal
regulations.
In most cases, review and approval of for‐credit micro‐credentials can be treated in the same
way that development of a minor would be treated, which would not typically require off‐
campus approvals. However, since credit‐bearing micro‐credentials represent a subset of
courses that may contribute toward the partial completion of one or more formal curricula
(that is, a set of registered educational requirements in either a Certificate or Degree program),
care must be exercised in determining potential issues, especially with respect to student
financial aid eligibility, academic advisement, credential title, and advertising.
As a general principle, campuses should keep their liaison in the SUNY System Program Review
and Planning Office (http://system.suny.edu/academic‐affairs/acaproplan/app/find‐your‐
campus‐reviewer/) apprised of their plans to develop and offer micro‐credentials. The program
reviewer can provide support to campus faculty, staff, and administration.
Some specific examples are provided below:


Micro‐Credentials Comprised of For‐Credit Courses in One or More Existing, Registered
Program(s)
Consistent with the core principles identified in this report, micro‐credentials ideally
stack toward a degree program and may be comprised of for‐credit courses that are
part of one or more existing, registered degree program(s).
In this case there is no approval required from the System Program Review and Planning
office or beyond. Campuses should, however, note the following:
-

The credential must go through appropriate local faculty governance procedures.

-

A planned micro‐credential may not have the same title as a registered degree or
certificate program. For example. a micro‐credential in a discipline related to
classroom teaching, educational leadership, or pupil personnel services for which
there exists a P‐12 educator certificate title issued by the New York State Education
Department, care must be taken in the selection of the micro‐credential title so that

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

19

it is not misleading to candidates or employers. The micro‐credential title should not
be exactly the same as a P‐12 educator certificate title, but instead should represent
the specific skill or competency in the discipline. And, candidates should be made
aware that the micro‐credential, in and of itself, does not lead to the issuance of a P‐
12 educator certificate title.
-

These types of micro‐credentials can be earned as part of the degree program,
marking accomplishments at a certain point in time and motivating students to
continue. They can also be marketed as a way to capture the interest of potential
students, introducing them to the campus and the program using smaller portions of
curricula.

-

These types of micro‐credentials are distinct from a registered certificate. Consistent
with New York State regulation, note that if a cluster of courses proposed for a
micro‐credential is 24 credits or more, campuses should explore with their Program
Review liaison SUNY approval and NYSED registration of a free‐standing certificate.

Again, while they may not need to approve these types of micro‐credentials, your
System Program Reviewer (http://system.suny.edu/academic‐affairs/acaproplan/app/
find‐your‐campus‐reviewer/) can be a valuable resource in the design phase of a micro‐
credential; particularly in addressing the points above. They can help identify potential
pathways for students and/or advise when an idea might be better as a registered
certificate.


IX.

Micro‐Credentials Designed to Provide Professional Development or Continuing
Education
-

There is also demand for stand‐alone professional development, career‐oriented
micro‐credentials. As noted above, some of these types of micro‐credentials might
be offered on the credit and/or non‐credit side.

-

Note that admission into a given program may be required in order for student
pursuing the micro‐credential to be financial aid eligible.

WHO SHOULD BE INVOLVED IN DEVELOPING MICRO‐CREDENTIALS?

Ideas for micro‐credentials can come from any number of sources. SUNY campuses have begun
to develop micro‐credentials in response to an idea from an individual faculty member, a
department working together as a team, even a special President’s Task Force charged with
discussing micro‐credentials with campus business and industry partners. It could be students
or alumni who have identified a need, the enrollment or admissions offices that are getting

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

20

frequent requests about credentials in a certain area, or career development officers who have
made a new industry contact.
No matter what the source of the idea, the Task Force wants to emphasize the importance and
value of collaborative design, quality assurance, and a thoughtful marketing/communications
plan—this is true whether the intent is non‐credit, non‐credit to credit, or a for‐credit
credential.
Figure X. Example: Possible Campus Engagement Strategy for the Micro‐Credential Design,
Campus Review, and Implementation Process

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

21

X.

RECOMMENDATIONS

1. The System Provost should encourage and support campus development of micro‐
credentials consistent with the core principles identified in this report:


Academic quality is paramount for micro‐credentials, and faculty governance
participation is required;



Micro‐credentials should be initiated, developed, and approved according to local
campus missions, policies, strengths, and guidelines.



Micro‐credentials designed to meet market needs should be informed by data from
appropriate markets and align with industry standards.



Micro‐credentials should provide opportunities for industry connections and
partnerships.



Micro‐credentials should be flexible and innovative, and planning should ensure their
portability.



Micro‐credentials should be stackable.

2. Campuses should develop criteria for a process by which micro‐credential articulations
may be developed, and the role which shared governance should play in this process.
Consideration might be given to articulating:


Existing noncredit into existing credit courses;



Existing noncredit into new credit courses;



New noncredit into existing credit courses; and



New noncredit into new credit courses.

3. Strong partnerships between Continuing Education/Workforce Development and
Academic Affairs may be necessary to achieve optimum results in the development of
certain micro‐credentials. Examples of issues to consider include:


Assessment of student learning outcomes and alignment of these between noncredit
and credit.



Establishment of business/financial guidelines to ensure financial viability and program
sustainability and renewal.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

22



Identification of the role of noncredit instructors and campus faculty in the
determination of noncredit to credit micro‐credentials, involving shared governance
where appropriate.



Guidelines and standards for faculty and curriculum that are consistent across the
institution, as called for by MSCHE.



Inclusion of industry standards in the assessment of programs which are linked to
industry‐recognized credentials.



Business and industry involvement as a part of development, assessment, and ongoing
support of such programs.

4. Campuses are encouraged to consider the six dimensions of quality that support
connected credentials as described in this report and by the American Council on
Education’s document Quality Dimensions for Connected Credentials: transparency,
modularity, portability, relevance, validity, and equity. In both attracting students and in
verifying the credentials, campuses must provide clarity for students around tuition,
financial aid, learning outcomes, assessments, and any connection to other credentials.
5. For purposes of clarity and transparency across the SUNY System, campuses are
encouraged to consider the Recommended SUNY Definition of Micro‐Credentials (and
associated taxonomy of terms provided in this document):
SUNY Micro‐Credential Definition:
Micro‐credentials verify, validate and attest that specific skills and/or competencies have
been achieved and are endorsed by the issuing institution, having been developed through
established faculty governance processes and designed to be meaningful and high quality.
Expanded Detail:
Micro‐credentials may represent the content of credit or noncredit study; they may take the
form of digital badge or micro‐award, and can be offered online, on‐campus, or a hybrid of
both. Micro‐credentials may be specifically recognized by certain industries, in which case
they may have the advantage of providing validation and attestation of industry‐specified
and frequently highly sought‐after competencies.
Each micro‐credential awarded must be represented clearly and accurately, addressing all
associated costs, financial aid, transferability, and applicability (e.g., stack‐ability) toward a
formal award(s) (i.e., registered degree, certificate).
Micro‐credentials can be used to highlight competencies earned as part of a credit‐bearing
program (motivating students to persist and distinguishing students among prospective
SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

23

employers); serve as an introduction or entry point to a degree program (stackable); or be
issued as a stand‐alone credential and/or one complementary to a degree program (an
English major may benefit from a micro‐credential in computer science; a computer science
major may benefit from a micro‐credential in business writing; a computer science alum
may benefit from a micro‐credential on the newest programming language; and/or an
education major may seek continuing professional development via a micro‐credential, etc.).
Taxonomy of Terms:
To provide the SUNY community with a common taxonomy around micro‐credentials, a list
of definitions for common micro‐credentialing terms is provided as Appendix A of this report.
This list may be expanded or revised over time and will be maintained online at:
http://system.suny.edu/academic‐affairs/microcredentials.
6. While there is local flexibility in developing micro‐credentials, campuses are strongly
encouraged to seek support and counsel from their liaison in the System Program Review
and Planning Office (http://system.suny.edu/academic‐affairs/acaproplan/app/find‐your‐
campus‐reviewer/) when planning micro‐credentials.
7. In the course of its work, the Task Force assigned a sub‐committee to review and identify
existing System, campus, or federal policies that may provide barriers, as well as potential
opportunities, to campus development of micro‐credentials. Upon review of the sub‐
committee’s work, the Task Force recommends that the Provost consider a formal policy
review process to include a System‐wide Task Force or Committee with representation
from faculty and student governance and an open‐comment period for any proposed
policy revision, for the following SUNY Trustee policies:


1305 Credit/Contact Hour ‐ The policy is centered on the framework of the Carnegie
Unit and time. Possible revisions for consideration include the introduction of language
on learning outcomes and competencies as a function of the awarding of credit.



1301 Continuing Education Unit ‐ Possible revisions for consideration include the
introduction of language that CEUs and other credentials be vetted through the
awarding institutions’ shared governance process in order to enable the creation and
conferral of micro‐credentials that award CEUs as well as college credit.



MTP 13‐3 Seamless Transfer ‐ Possible revisions for consideration include language to
specifically note what the Provost has already indicated; that transferring of for‐credit
or noncredit micro‐credentials follows SUNY Policy 1008 Transfer and Articulation and
MTP 13‐3 Seamless Transfer.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

24



1300 Award of Academic Credit by Evaluation – As prior learning assessment can be
used to evaluate learning acquired through micro‐credentials not already assessed for
college credit, the Task Force has reviewed the Report of the SUNY TAACCT Grant Prior
Learning Assessment Advisory Board and found several of relevant recommendations.
The Task Force recommends that this report be assessed and reviewed via a formal
policy review process.

8. The Task Force recommends that SUNY join in efforts to advocate for the consideration of
micro‐credentials as allowable activities for the purposes of state and federal financial
aid; explore a system‐wide approach to digital transcripts that include micro‐credentials;
and provide any needed specificity around the transfer and portability of digital badges.
9. The System Provost should charge the SUNY Faculty Advisory Council on Teaching and
Technology (FACT2), and/or other relevant representative group, with development of a
readiness assessment and resources to support faculty in the development and
successfully delivery of micro‐credentials.
10. In the interests of accountability, transparency and portability of micro‐credentials, it is
essential to communicate and report the development of these at a System level. It is
recommended that reporting structures in SIRIS be developed to ensure consistency of
data definitions and facilitate reporting.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

25

APPENDIX A: GLOSSARY OF TERMS
The following list provides the SUNY community with a common taxonomy around micro‐
credentials, building on the quality work of the Lumina Foundation and others.3 Note: This list
may be expanded or revised over time and will be maintained online at:
http://system.suny.edu/academic‐affairs/microcredentials.


Badge: use of digital technologies to represent competencies and various learning
achievements; electronic badges should include meta‐data on the evidence of learning and
link back to sponsoring institution and evaluation criteria.



Certificate: a credential issued by an institution in recognition of the completion of a
curriculum that usually represents a smaller domain of knowledge than established
degrees. Credit bearing certificates must be approved by SUNY and registered with the
State Education Department. These certificates typically contain fewer credits than a degree
program. All credits must be applicable toward a degree program at the issuing institution.
Noncredit certificates need no external approval and must be identified as such.



Certification: mastery of or competency in specific knowledge, skills or processes that can
be measured against a set of accepted standards, usually established by a recognized entity
such as NYSED in the case of licensure requirements or an industry organization such as
Microsoft.



Competency: Learnable, measurable and/or observable knowledge and skill‐sets gained;



Degree: title given by an institution (usually a college or university) that has been granted
the authority by a state, a recognized Native American tribe, or the federal government to
confer such credentials. A degree represents satisfactory accomplishments within an
accepted body of knowledge.



Infrastructure: including but not limited to student support systems, transcripting, student
information systems, assessment, marketing, fee structures, portability: the credential has
value locally, nationally and perhaps internationally in labor markets, education systems,
and/or other contexts.



License: legal permission, typically granted by a government agency, to allow an individual
to perform certain regulated tasks or occupations. Licenses are based on pre‐determined,
standardized criteria, involving educational programs of study, assessments, and/or work
experience and are time‐limited requiring periodic review and renewal.

3

All definitions are based on Lumina/Connecting Credentials, save certificate (New York State Education
Department); and MOOC (Educause)

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

26



Learning Outcome: that which a learner is expected to know, understand, or be able to do
after successful completion of a planned process of learning.



Micro‐credential: Micro‐credentials verify, validate and attest that specific skills and/or
competencies have been achieved and are endorsed by the issuing institution, having been
developed through established faculty governance processes and designed to be
meaningful and high quality.



MOOC: A massive open online course (MOOC) is a model for delivering learning content
online to any person who wants to take a course, with no limit on attendance. MOOCs are
increasingly used as vehicles to deliver micro‐credentials.



Qualification: the formal outcome of an assessment and validation process which is
obtained when a competent body determines that an individual has achieved learning
outcomes to given standards (e.g. European Qualifications Framework)



Stackable Credential or Career Pathway: part of a sequence of credentials that can be
accumulated over time to build up an individual’s qualifications and help that individual
move along a career pathway and further education.



Transparency: easy to understand and compare, clear learning outcomes and/or
competencies.

Examples of Trademarked Micro‐Credential Titles


Udacity owns the trademark for Nanodegree.



The nonprofit edX, founded by MIT and Harvard University to deliver online courses by a
consortium of colleges, applied for a trademark on the word MicroMasters.



MicroDegree is trademarked by Edevate.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

27

APPENDIX B: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPTS
Work underway at eleven colleges/universities selected to participate in the comprehensive
student record project, funded by a grant from the Lumina Foundation and directed by AACRAO
(American Association of College Registrars and Admissions Officers) and NASPA (Student
Affairs Professionals in Higher Education), showcase sample prototypes for documenting in a
reliable, verifiable way student learning, competencies, and experiences from a variety of
learning venues. Prototypes like these should facilitate the further work that is needed to
document and incorporate validated evidence of student learning that results from completion
of micro‐credentials, industry recognized credentials and related noncredit to credit pathways
programs. Summaries of six of the individual projects developed by selected institutions
participating in the comprehensive student record project are detailed below.
1. Borough of Manhattan CC (BMCC) has developed a co‐curricular transcript, which is
validated by the Division of Student Affairs. The supplemental transcript includes
individual student participation in activities categorized under Athletics; Clubs or
Organizations; Community Service; Honor and Awards; Leadership Training; Workshops
and Seminars. In the future, the institution plans to investigate how to be more granular
about skills developed in each of the designated categories.
2. University of Central Oklahoma (UCO) has been working on the development of a
“second transcript” that is designed to record students’ growth and learning beyond
aptitude in their major. Called the Student Transformative Learning Record (STLR), the
purpose of the transcript is to track, document and verify student learning across five of
the institution’s Six Core Value Tenets. The first five value tenet are Global and Cultural
Competencies; Health and Wellness; Leadership; Research, Creative and Scholarly
Activities; and Service Learning and Civic Engagement. The sixth Tenet, Discipline
Knowledge, is recorded in the traditional academic transcript. Students have a mobile
student dashboard on which they can track their own badging achievement in each of
the core tenets, Data are backed up by faculty and staff assessment of the
transformative experiences. The assessments are based on AACU’s Value rubrics.
3. Elon University has transformed a longstanding co‐curricular transcript by building, with
the assistance of the software vendor Parchment, a user‐friendly visual co‐curricular
transcript, a web platform where student information and experiences can be uploaded
as an Excel spreadsheet to create a PDF infographic. Each experience has a code and
associated icon. The front page of the visual transcript uses those icons to present a
summary of each experience, and the second page presents that data as a visualization.
The goal is to make the visual transcript something that is easily digestible for readers as
well as sharable via social media.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

28

4. University of Maryland University College, an online state university, is developing a
competency‐based, visual record of performance; an extended transcript that can be
shared with and understood by employers. The new transcript reflects UMUC’s
curriculum, which focuses on program‐level professional skills and goals, not individual
courses. Rather than documenting the classes a student took and the grades earned, the
record describes and contextualize a student’s knowledge, giving specific evidence of
learning in particular areas. UMUC’s curriculum consists of program‐level competencies,
which are further broken down into specific skills and abilities. Courses then require
projects and simulations where students must demonstrate those competencies, with
assessments that aim to replicate what students will experience in the workforce.
Students are responsible for incorporating faculty feedback and resubmitting. The goal
is mastery of learning; students cannot pass until they’ve mastered the competencies
associated with a project. The associated learning artifacts—projects, papers, speeches
will be archived in the student record, beginning in fall 2017. To leverage resources,
UMUC worked closely with the University of Wisconsin‐Extension, another institution
involved in the comprehensive student record project, to develop access to the record.
Both schools serve similar student populations, have the same learning management
system, and will deliver the transcript as a digital webpage from which the viewer can
link through to many different portals, rather than a piece of paper.
Over the last 18 months, UMUC worked with IMS Global on CBE (competency based
education) and digital credentialing and is now working with the recent Cengage
acquisition Learning Objects Inc. to create the visual extended transcript with an
appropriate learner interface.
5. University of South Carolina has an extended transcript project, "Beyond the Classroom
Matters," involving staff from student affairs, academic affairs, information technology,
and the registrar’s office. Staff from these areas built a catalog of “Beyond the
Classroom” learning programs, including community service, undergraduate research,
career coaching, supplemental instruction, leadership experiences, and peer education.
Each program is aligned with high impact practices and the educational purpose of each
activity is clearly defined in the new database. This catalog has a web interface through
which student participation is recorded.
6. Stanford University has developed a “certified electronic certificate” which includes in a
digital format the skills/outcomes achieved by the student allowing employers or other
colleges to see at a glance what capacities the student has developed and where he or
she learned them. Using a digital file with an electronic signature, students are able to
convey their credentials to prospective employers and to share them on career‐building
sites. The PDF certificate contains a data file that articulates the program and course
SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

29

learning outcomes. Stanford officials are currently working with PESC, Postsecondary
Electronic Standard Council, to establish a credential standard.
Other noteworthy efforts include the Lumina Foundation’s Connecting Credentials initiative
(www.connectingcredentials.org). In addition, several other vendors and nonprofits have done
extensive work with digital repositories for student knowledge including efforts by: Parchment;
the National Student Clearinghouse and Student Labs; Merit Pages; Degreed, a learning portal
company; and, Mozilla Foundation’s Open Badges.

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

30

APPENDIX C: RESOURCES
ACE. (2015). Rethinking Credentialing. American Council of Education. Retrieved online at:
http://www.acenet.edu/news‐room/Pages/Rethinking‐Higher‐Education‐Credentialing.aspx
ACE. (2015). Connecting Credentials [Webinar]. American Council of Education. Retrieved online
at: http://www.acenet.edu/news‐room/Pages/Rethinking‐Higher‐Education‐Credentialing.aspx
ACE. (n.d.). College Credit Recommendation Service. [Prior Learning Assessment]. American
Council of Education. Retrieved online at:
http://www2.acenet.edu/credit/?fuseaction=browse.main
Adult Learning Focused Institution (ALFI) initiative. (n.d.). Retrieved from the Council for Adult
and Experiential Learning (CAEL) website: www.cael.org/whom‐we‐serve/colleges‐and‐
universities/adult‐student‐services/alfi‐assessment‐tools/heading‐1
Berry, B., Airhart, K., Byrd, P. (2016). Microcredentials. Phi Delta Kappan. Vol 98, Issue 3, pp. 34
– 40. Retrieved online at:
http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0031721716677260#articleCitationDownloadCo
ntainer
Brown, J., Kurzweil, M. (2017). The Complex Universe of Alternative Postsecondary Credentials
and Pathways. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Retrieved online at:
https://www.amacad.org/content/publications/publication.aspx?d=22786
Buban, J. (2017). Alternative Credentials, Prior Learning 2.0. [Attracting the adult learner].
Online Learning Consortium’s Center for Research in Digital Learning & Leadership. Retrieved
online at: https://onlinelearningconsortium.org/read/deac‐study‐alternative‐credentials/
Carnevale, A., Strohl, J. and Gulesh, A. (2015). College Is Just The Beginning: Employers’ Role in
the $1.1 Trillion Postsecondary Education and Training System. Center on Education and the
Workforce. McCourt School of Public Policy. Retrieved from: https://cew.georgetown.edu/wp‐
content/uploads/2015/02/Trillion‐Dollar‐Training‐System‐.pdf
Center for Teaching Quality, Digital Promise. (2016). Micro‐credentials: Driving teacher learning
and leadership. Retrieved online at: https://www.teachingquality.org/microcredentials
ConnectingCredentials.org. (2016). Connecting Credentials, From National Dialogue to
Collective Action. Lumina Foundation. Retrieved online at:
http://connectingcredentials.org/resources/connecting‐credentials‐national‐dialogue‐
collective‐action/

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

31

Grant, S. (2016). Building Collective Belief in Badges: Designing Trust Networks. Foundation for
Digital Badges and Micro‐Credentials, pp. 97‐114.
Gibson, D., Ostashewski, N., Flintoff, K., Grant, S., Knight, E. (2015). Education and Information
Technologies. V. 20, Issue 2, pp 403‐410. Retrieved online at:
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10639‐013‐9291‐7
“Educating Nontraditional Students: A selection of Inside Higher Ed Articles and Essays.”
(2014). Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from: https://www.insidehighered.com/content/educating‐
nontraditional‐students
Erisman, W. and Steele, P. (2015). Adult College Completion in the 21st Century: What We Know
and What We Don’t. Higher Ed Insight. Retrieved from:
http://www.adultcollegecompletion.org/sites/files/documents/images/Adult%20College%20Co
mpletion%20in%20the%2021st%20Century.pdf
Everhart, D., Ganzglass, E., Casilli, C., Hickey, D., Muramatsu, B. (2016). Quality Dimensions for
Connected Credentials. American Council on Education. Retrieved online at:
http://www.acenet.edu/news‐room/Pages/Quality‐Dimensions‐for‐Connected‐Credentials.aspx
Everhart, D., Bushway, D., and Schejbal, D. (2016). Communicating the Value of Competencies.
American Council on Education. Retrieved online at: http://www.acenet.edu/news‐
room/Pages/Communicating‐the‐Value‐of‐Competencies.aspx
Fain, P. (2013). “Transformation from Within.” Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from:
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2013/01/21/ace‐commissioned‐report‐disruption‐and‐
adult‐students
Ganzglass, E. (2014). Scaling “Stackable Credentials”: Implications for Implementation and
Policy. Center for Postsecondary and Economic Success. Retrieved from:
http://www.clasp.org/resources‐and‐publications/files/2014‐03‐21‐Stackable‐Credentials‐
Paper‐FINAL.pdf
Getting Smart, Bloomboard. (2016). Moving PD from Seat‐Time to Demonstrated Competency
Using Micro‐credentials. Retrieved online at:
http://www.gettingsmart.com/publication/moving‐pd‐from‐seat‐time‐to‐demonstrated‐
competency‐using‐micro‐credentials/
Hall‐Ellis, S. D. (2016). Stackable micro‐credentials – a framework for the future. The Bottom
Line, Vol. 29 Issue: 4, pp.233‐236. Retrieved online at: https://doi.org/10.1108/BL‐02‐2016‐
0006

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

32

Lumina Foundation (2016). Connecting Credentials, Lessons from the National Summit on
Credentialing and Next Steps in the National Dialogue. Retrieved online at:
http://connectingcredentials.org/resources/connecting‐credentials‐lessons‐from‐national‐
summit‐on‐credentialing/
Lumina Foundation (2015). Connecting Credentials. Making the Case for Reforming the U.S.
Credentialing System. Retrieved online at: http://connectingcredentials.org/resources/making‐
case‐reforming‐u‐s‐credentialing‐system/
Newby, T., Wright, C., Besser, E., Beese, E. (2016). Passport to Designing, Developing and
Issuing Digital Instructional Badges. Foundation of Digital Badges and Micro‐Credentials, pp.
179‐201.
University of Utah. Degree Plus Certificate Series [Brochure]. Retrieved online at:
http://degreeplus.utah.edu/program‐details/
U.S. Chamber of Commerce. (2016). Changing the Debate on Quality Assurance in Higher
Education. Retrieved online at: https://www.uschamberfoundation.org/reports/changing‐
debate‐quality‐assurance‐higher‐education
U.S. Department of Education. (2014). Availability of Data on Noncredit Education and
Postsecondary Certifications: an analysis of selected state‐level data systems. Retrieved from
http://s3.amazonaws.com/NCICTE/pdf/NCICTE_Availability_of_Data_Final_Report.pdf
Van Noy, M., Jacobs, J., Korey, S., Bailey, T. and Hughes, K. (2008). Noncredit Enrollment in
Workforce Education: State Policies and Community College Practices. American Association of
Community Colleges. Retrieved from:
http://www.aacc.nche.edu/Publications/Reports/Documents/noncredit.pdf
Notes:


Lumina’s Connecting Credentials website contains a good repository of resources:
http://connectingcredentials.org/



Credential Engine (grew out of the Credit Transparency Initiative) is a 501C3 non‐profit
organization whose mission is to: “improve transparency in the credentialing
marketplace.” They maintain an open‐licensed, “Credential Registry (CR) and Credential
Transparency Description Language (CTDL).” http://www.credentialengine.org/

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

33

APPENDIX D: MICRO‐CREDENTIALING TASK FORCE MEMBERS
Diane Bliss
Governance Committee Chair, Faculty Council of
Community Colleges
Professor of English and Adjunct Coordinator
Orange County Community College
115 South Street
Middletown, New York 1094
diane.bliss@sunyorange.edu
Susan Deer, Ph.D.
Vice President of Academic Affairs
Rockland Community College
145 College Road, Library 4305
Suffern, New York 10901
sdeer@sunyrockland.edu
David Duryea
Vice President for Finance and Management
SUNY Cortland
P.O. Box 2000
Cortland, New York 13045
david.duryea@cortland.edu
Christy Fogal
Vice President, Faculty Council of Community
Colleges
Professor of Mathematics
Monroe Community College
1000 East Henrietta Road
Rochester, New York 14623
cfogal@monroecc.edu
Jane Hammond
Associate Dean for Curriculum and Academic
Records
Tompkins‐Cortland Community College
170 North Street, P.O. Box 139
Dryden, New York 13053
HammonJ@tc3.edu
Alex George
SUNY Student Assembly
c/o SUNY Plaza
Albany, New York 12246
alex.george@sunysa.org

Gwen Kay, Ph.D.
Vice President, University Faculty Senate
Professor, Graduate Program Director
SUNY Oswego
7060 Route 104
Oswego, New York 13126‐3599
gwen.kay@oswego.edu
Minahil Khan
Student Assembly President
University at Buffalo
Buffalo, New York 14260
minahilk@buffalo.edu
David Kohn
Director, Continuing and Professional Education
Orange County Community College
Continuing Education
115 South St
Middletown, New York 10940
david.kohn@sunyorange.edu
Ken Lindblom, Ph.D.
Associate Dean
Stony Brook University
Social & Behavioral Sciences Building
Stony Brook, New York 11794‐4310
kenneth.lindblom@stonybrook.edu
Jill Pippin
Dean for Extended Learning
SUNY Oswego
7060 Route 104
Oswego, New York 13126‐3599
315‐312‐3077
jill.pippin@oswego.edu
Kristin R. Poppo, Ph.D.
Provost
State University College of Technology at Alfred
Huntington Administration Building, Room 201
10 Upper College Drive
Alfred, New York 14802
PoppoKR@alfredstate.edu

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

34

Kathleen M. Schiefen, Ph.D.
Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
Genesee Community College
One College Road
Batavia, New York 14020
kmschiefen@genesee.edu
Karen Spellacy
Professor of Economics
SUNY Canton
34 Cornell Drive
Canton, New York 13617
spellacy@canton.edu
James Stellar, Ph.D.
Sr. Vice President for Academic Affairs
and Provost
University at Albany
University Hall 308
1400 Washington Avenue
Albany, New York 12222
jstellar@albany.edu

Nina Tamrowski
SUNY Trustee and President, Faculty Council of
Community Colleges
Professor, Political Science
Chair, Social Sciences Department
Onondaga Community College
4585 West Seneca Turnpike
Syracuse, New York 13215
nina.tamrowski@suny.edu
Marion Terenzio, Ph.D.
President
SUNY Cobleskill
106 Suffolk Circle, Room 202 Knapp Hall
Cobleskill, New York 12043
terenzma@cobleskill.edu
Nan Travers, Ph.D.
Director, Ctr. for Leadership in Credentialing
Learning
SUNY Empire State College
Two Union Avenue
Saratoga Springs, NY 12866
Nan.Travers@esc.edu

System Administration Liaisons
Elizabeth Bringsjord, Ph.D., Vice Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Carey Hatch, Interim Senior Associate Provost for Academic Technology and Information Services
Fred Hildebrand, Ph.D., Associate Provost, Academic Programs and Planning
Deborah Moeckel, Ph.D., Assistant Provost for Community College Education
Cynthia Proctor, Director of Communications and Academic Policy Development
Special thanks to the following individuals who contributed to the early work of the Task Force:
Craig Billie, Institutional Research Associate, Office of IR and Data Analytics
Mike Hegarty, SUNY Student Assembly, Executive Committee Representative
John Nader, Ph.D., President, State University College of Technology at Farmingdale

SUNY Micro‐Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations

35