have been other letters submitted independently by members of the faculty in response to the

request from the Chancellor’s office.

Suggestion by Carolyn Cocca to put on the next agenda the question of how we as a faculty can
participate in the review process.
C. Discussion of the new proposed schedule for classes in Spring 2005
1) New motion: Mandy Frisken read a resolution from American Studies, seconded by the Student
Government representative, on the new proposed Spring schedule. This resolution also will

be circulated with minutes.

Discussion: We should look through the old minutes for the discussion on the proposed schedule
changes, which also discussed at the Chairs’ meetings.
We need discussion but the announcement and implementation were projected in a
precipitous way.
Points of information: 1)Would folks from administration tell us why and how faculty can
incorporate what we have already decided in our department meetings about the Spring

schedule before having the schedule? What is the time deadline?

Answer: the schedule needs to be BACK from the printer before the Spring registration begins.

Answer from Dr. Cox: To clarify a question received, the 2-credit hour courses are not required for
everyone; that option was a decision by the Chairs, the former SGA President and a
Tepresentative committee, as an option to help students complete the math requirement by
breaking it into two components. So this is an amendment to the schedule. The Common
Hour is now scheduled at a regular time, in accordance with the views of a campus-wide
committee, not by the administration, to best accommodate the needs of students.

2) Motion to extend meeting ten minutes passed unanimously.
Discussion: Sciences cannot have labs in the new schedule because the Common Hours are
scheduled in the middle of the labs. Also, there is a question about the need for a Common
Hour: Do students attend the Common Hour programs?
Some departments have not yet met, so the proposed schedule has not been discussed in all
departments.
3) Motion to extend the meeting five more minutes passed unanimously.

L. Cox pointed out that the faculty needs to make a decision about what schedule would work best.

There is a consensus that the schedule change needs to be postponed. We need a long agenda
item to bring back a new schedule with all the details worked out in time for the
administration to use it by Fall 2005.
Given the positive response by Dr. Cox, M. Frisken withdrew her department’s motion.

X.

Good of the Order
Motion to approve the proposed dates of the Faculty Senate meetings was seconded and

unanimously approved.

Announcement: Monday, Sept 13 at 10:30 am, there will be a Sept 11 memorial service; the plaque

has been reinstalled.

Announcement: Also on Sept 13 at 6:30 pm, a memorial service will be held for the late student,

SGA President Jermaine Camp, who was in the PES program.

A motion to adjourn was passed at 2:47 pm.
Respectfully submitted,

Eloise Linger, (outgoing) Secretary-Treasurer and (outgoing) Senator from PES