accept in their own homes, and if we send them from pillar to post to find classrooms
after the designated ones have, say, sprung gushing leaks. Those of us who work here
tend to resign ourselves to the surroundings, but I think that the resignation is a factor in
halls that are lifeless even at peak hours of the day. Vital campus life is not just the

responsibility of Student Affairs; it is our presence that will bring it about.

The third goal, financial self-sufficiency, is the check on our dreams and the
incentive to responsible planning. Resources are constrained at every level. We cannot
throw good money after haphazard plans. We cannot install computers or a server in the
math lab—for example—until the leaks are fixed. The campus must find a way to
systematize both critical and routine maintenance under the supervision of qualified and

accountable personnel.
This systematizing of resources brings me to my third charge for the Senate:
judicious use and cultivation of the resource of faculty energies. For the first, and
possibly last, time in my career, I feel moved to paraphrase George W. Bush, in his
observation on taxes last Wednesday. Applying it it to the matter of college service:

“Faculty energies should be spent wisely, or not at all.” There is a further connection to
taxes, I suppose, in that all should contribute in proportion of their means. Faculty
become demoralized when their energies in college service are overtaxed. Some
combination of positive and negative incentives needs to be brought into play to spread
the work more broadly.

But the work also has to be allocated efficiently, and it must be rewarded in ways

both tangible and intangible. I was dismayed last semester at the demands that the

Mission Review II process put on faculty efforts, though I was heartened at how readily

and effectively they took on the tasks with which the Senate charged them. The resulting
document, brimming with that effort if not always with clarity, is ours to work with.

my earnest hope that further planning—for curriculum, academic reorganization, and

It is

budget and resource allocation-- will take place with this document and previous guiding
documents firmly in view; in the full view of faculty governance and under the
supervision of the Academic Vice President. All the evidence points to such
transparency as a crucial factor in faculty morale.
The Senate should not constrain its vision for faculty initiative to college service.
I urge everyone here, along with colleagues who are not present, to look at the document
recently prepared by the Chancellor’s office on best practices for Faculty Development.

The Executive Committee has begun to discuss these issues with the AVP.
O’Sullivan

Dr.

has expressed his commitment to establishing a regular sabbatical policy, and

we have urged him to consider ways that application for external funding can be made

more dependable and responsive to faculty initiative.
There is doubtless more we can do, and I would urge the Senate to be diligent in
pursuit of means to support and recognize faculty achievement in all areas. The College
needs ambitious people. In order to keep them, it must provide them with both resources
and recognition.

If this does not happen, ambition will either stagnate or go elsewhere.

In the words of a colleague, “It must be possible to rise at Old Westbury.” When Old
Westbury’s people can rise, the College itself will rise to take the laurels of distinction it
has long deserved.

--Caroline Sawyer