STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, February 9, 2017 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100





*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive





Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Asia Burke proxy for Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Minna Barrett (FYE), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Roger Mayer (AC), Yu Lei (MMF), Jillian Nissen (BS), Bright Emenike (CP), Deepa Jani (EN), Jingyi Song (H&P), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY), Jacob Heller (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)



Senators Absent:  William Gillis (Senator At-Large, Alt. Univ. Senator), Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Blidi Stemm (CE), Andrew Hashey (EE), Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Shijian Li (PH), Chris Hobson (ARPT), Llana Barber (LEC), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP Stud. Aff.)



Visitors:  Bonnie Eannone, Chris Notaro, Anthony Barbera, Chandra Shehigian, Omar Estrada Torres, Duncan Quarless, Lorenz Neuwirth, Joanne Spadaro, Pat Smith, Shalei Simms, Kathy Greenberg, Runi Mukherji, Yumi Nicholson







MINUTES

			   I.	Call to Order 12:36pm							

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of Dec 15, 2017

			

			The minutes are approved by voice vote.

			Question: Will UUP give updates to the Senate?  Yes, this is what we requested.

			

			

			

			

			

			 III.	FS Chair’s Report 

			

1.  February 09, 2018 1. Graduation Move to Nassau Coliseum: 

o Cooperation with NCC required immediate EC response to Provost on 2/5. Approval given by three EC members present. 

o Single Commencement: 9:00 – 11:30 (NCC: 3:00 PM) 

o 10 tickets instead of four. 10k instead of 4k (17K capacity.) 

o Rain or shine. 

o Positive experience of NCCC at Coliseum in the past. 

2. ARPT Committee at Full Strength: With the addition of Dr. Elizabeth Morphis (SOE) the ARPT now has a complete committee for the spring. Thank you Elizabeth! 

3. Strategic Plan Update: Comments on the 11/28/17 draft and Implementation Plan have been received and considered. The committee met several times in January and addressed every comment submitted. Several minor revisions have been made in response to the comments. The final draft that will be submitted to the president for approval in the near future. The approved Strategic Plan will be circulated during the spring semester. Questions or concerns should be sent to Co-Chairs of the Planning Process: Anthony Barbara, Duncan Quarless, Andrew Mattson. 

4. Institutional Assessment of Faculty Governance as Non-Academic Unit: 

o All “Non-Academic Units” of the College must be assessed and an Assessment Report submitted by January 15, 2018. 

o Newly appointed Assessment Coordinator Jacob Heller needs an Assessment Report for Faculty Governance ASAP to meet due date for submission of the Progress Report to Middle States this spring. 

o All units must submit Five Performance Objectives. The EC has drafted five performance objectives. Two will be assessed for 2016-2017, two for 2017-2018, one for 2018-2019: 

		Assess Representation by Gender, Rank, Role of Standing Committees, Faculty Senate, Executive Committee. (for AY 2016- 2017.) Performance Objective: Balance of Rank & Gender Diversity of Governance.  

		Assess Staffing of Faculty Senate & Executive Committee (for AY 2016-2017.) Performance Objective: Fully Staffed.  

		Assess Staffing of Standing Committees (for AY 2017-2018.) Performance Objective: Fully Staffed.  

		Assess Engagement in Governance Using Attendance Data for Standing Committees, Faculty Senate, Executive Committee. (for AY 2017-2018.) Performance Objective: Improve Engagement.  

		Assess Timely Completion and Submission of Committee Reports. (for AY 2018-2019.) Performance Objective: Improve productivity.  

o Senators: Email comments on these five performance objectives to the FS Chair so that the EC can complete the Assessment Report and submit to Jacob Heller ASAP. Senate volunteers to complete the assessment are very welcome. 

			o  Other notes:  Although the Institutional Assessment is late from the Faculty Senate, the Faculty Senate was not informed with enough time to submit it by the deadline.

					     

			o Other notes:  Faculty comments that self-assessment is a good idea and we should be doing it.  However, note that faculty does not have oversight of a 360 assessment for administration.

			

5. Updating ARPT Manual, Proposal Approved by EC, Request for Comment: The chair of ARPT Chris Hobson submitted a proposal to review and update the 2003 ARPT Manual to reflect current committee practices. The Executive Committee supports this proposal. The Provost has approved one course release for Chris Hobson for this update of the ARPT manual. 

o Proposal from Chair of ARPT: "I assume we're talking primarily about the ARPT Manual (formally, an Appendix to the By-Laws), which hasn't been updated since 2003. The ARPT description in the By-Laws proper was updated in the current (2016) version of the By-Laws. This description should be examined for concurrence with present practice, but if possible, changes to the By-Laws language should be avoided." 

1. I would propose a three-step procedure for updating the manual: 

 I would go through the 2003 Manual over the summer break 2018, with 2 aims: 

o note any variance with currently prevalent ARPT practice and draft new language if the current procedure is compatible with ARPT's purposes and procedures as provided in the By-Laws; in case of conflict, I would recommend whether to change current ARPT practice or to change the By-Laws. 

o Where possible, I would simplify language and/or reorder sections with the aim of making the Manual a more "user-friendly" document. These steps would result in a draft revision of the Manual. 

 In Fall 2018, I would convene, in consultation with ARPT, a 3-5 member committee consisting of currently serving veteran ARPT members and one or more former ARPT chairs, to review and suggest changes in the draft. Following this, the draft would be submitted to ARPT for a vote. Target date for completing both steps would be the end of the Fall 2018 semester. 

 The resulting document would be forwarded to the Senate EC for appropriate action (beginning of Spring 2019 semester). 

Executive Committee approved two additions to Hobson proposal based on comments from Minna Barrett: 

			  "The codification in the Manual should also be aligned with the College Mission and Values. Woven into the content of the requirements/as a preamble to the Manual, the mission and values content should be integral to any revamping of the manual."  

			  "Each time the Manual goes through a draft with changes to its core content, the draft should be made available to the Senate members for review and comment." 

		The Executive Committee did not endorse Dr. Barrett's proposal that any request for course releases should be first approved by the full Faculty Senate. The Faculty Senate Chair does support Minna Barrett's request that any request for course releases be conducted in a transparent manner. 

		Question from the floor: Are the appendices to faculty bylaws voted on by the faculty?  The Parliamentarian will check for precedence, noting that appendices include college-wide committees established in conjunction with administration or other constituencies. 

		 6. Request for Consideration of the Faculty Role in Student Conduct Hearings. Ombudsperson?  

			o Laura Anker proposes a discussion with the faculty participating to clarify the role of faculty in this process. One proposal would be to consider an Ombudsperson (Purchase, Stony Brook.)  

			7. President of the University Faculty Senate Coming to Old Westbury: 

				     o Dr. Gwen Kay has asked to visit on either March 12th or 13th. The EC is making plans. If anyone is interested in meeting with Dr. Kay please contact the FS Chair.  	

			

			IV. 	Provost’s Report

			

			Pat Smith reports that instead of the Clark Center we will move commencement to the Nassau Coliseum.  This will allow students to have more tickets.  We will combine our two commencements into one.  With combining the date with Nassau CC commencement, it will be more cost effective.

			Review of Student Success Center, see chart in meeting documents.  We want the area to be highly central and visible for student services.  We will have more classrooms available in the library, they are in contract now.  We have some money going to hiring advising staff.  Faculty asks whether classrooms in the library will affect the flow of traffic and will possibly be disruptive to students studying there.  The plans were agreed to, that’s all we know.  Faculty asks, when were the classrooms added?  We are not sure exactly, but we do need the classrooms in order to support a good financial plan.

			Chris Notaro reports we will have a food panty open soon, in the first week of March.  Contributions to the food pantry will go through the Foundation.  Chris will contact the Senate about contributions.

			SUNY Downstate has visited here, Eric Swartz.  A BS Physician’s Assistant (PA) is being considered so students will have a pathway into health professions.  We would like to, if it is feasible, offer education degrees in Westchester.

			SOE is working with Farmingdale looking at the possibility of these degrees.  Nancy Brown will report more about this later. Possible degrees:  MAT joint with Farmingdale, MAT in Health Education, MS in Speech and Language Pathology (this is in high demand).  Faculty comments that MS in Health Care Management is being approved soon.  How will these programs complement each other?  We are not sure yet, it is still being discussed.

			Kaplan MCAT prep course was unaffordable for some students.  We have 10 students receiving scholarships for completing this course so they can get into med school.  

			The Dean of Engineering at CCNY contacted us about our students pursuing engineering there.  Faculty comments this is a great idea.  In the past we had a pre-engineering articulation with Stony Brook; our students benefited from this in the 1980’s-1990’s.   

			Faculty comments that management technology at Farmingdale is very competitive.  Our School of Business may seem less competitive in comparison.  We need to look at things very seriously.  Another faculty comments that we have a unique perspective at OW that we can pursue things unique to our campus.   Faculty also cautions that master’s programs may possibly have negative implications for undergraduates in terms of resources.  Downstate has a similar mission as us, they are a good choice for sending our undergrads for graduate programs.  We can also connect with Farmingdale in a positive way.

			Duncan Quarless reports on the online implementation of the Class Climate system.  We have been looking at other vendors due to some technical concerns.  One possible product is by IOTA 360, see document for this meeting.  This could save us some money, and in terms of tech support it may be better.

			Anthony Barbera reports that non-academic units are being assessed, and a progress report will be prepared by April 1st.

			SUNY SAIL has a training program for department chairs.

			SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force info has been sent to department chairs.

			

			V.	Special Order of Business: Nomination and Election of FS Chair

				 (M. Dolan, Parliamentarian)

			 The Parliamentarian refers to Feb. 1st email sent to all Senators, summarizing the options available in view of unexpected vacancy in Chair position. Senate needs to consider whether to elect Pro-Tem chair for Spring 2018 semester, or whether to hold early election for 2018-2019, in which case longer term may provide some degree of stability. 

			 Since election in February is outside normal election cycle, and since 1 or 3-semester term is outside normal term length, the section of Bylaws pertaining to election of FS Chair would need to be suspended temporarily in order to proceed today with election.   

			Motion to waive Bylaws Article V Sections D-E is made from the floor; motion is seconded. Suspension of Article V Sections D-E is approved by voice vote, 0 opposed, 1 abstention.

			The Parliamentarian provides some brief historical data. Old Westbury’s Faculty Senate began in 1992 and is now in its 26th year.  In the past 25.5 years, the Senate has had 15 Chairs (11 female, 4 male). For 21 of past 25.5 years, Senate has been led by female faculty member. Female chairs have served average of 2 years; male chairs have averaged 1 year.    

			Prior to today’s meeting, no nominations were received for Spring 2018-Spring 2019 term, Call for nominations from the floor for special 3-semester term.  There are no nominations.

			The Parliamentarian notes that Senate will need to elect Chair for 2018-2019 at the end of this semester. Next year’s chair will arise from current membership of the Senate.  

			The Faculty Senate Office has received a nomination for Pro-Tem Chair for remainder of Spring 2018 semester, Andy Mattson.  He accepts the nomination.  Hearing no other nominations, the Parliamentarian closes nominations and asks for election by acclimation. Andy is elected by voice vote without dissent.

			

			VI.	Old Business

			

			A.	Parking update by FRRC Sub-Committee	

			Ali Ebrahimi has provided a Report and Recommendations, please see documents for this meeting.   An email from the President’s office is also in the meeting documents.

			There is $2.8 million set aside for this parking problem.  We hope by next fall the problems will be resolved.

			Question about whether the lighting is included in the recommendations?  Yes, it is included.

			The money collected for parking tickets should perhaps be used solely for parking issues.  Faculty comments that we asked for an accounting for where the money went for parking tickets, but we did not receive that information.

			Designated parking for faculty is also being discussed.

			Faculty asks whether disability parking near NAB is included in the recommendations.  We have gotten some info about how many ADA compliant spots are available.  There were decisions made when planning NAB not to add disability parking near building in order to be viewed as “more green”.

			With money available we may consider adding electric plug-in spots.

			

			VII.	New Business

			

				A. 	Report on UFS Winter Plenary Session (Laurie Morris)	

			Laurie Morris went to Utica for the Plenary Session.  Some documents are still on the way, such as the resolutions.

			Major themes from the meeting:  

			The new chancellor, Kristina Johnson, referred to comprehensive colleges as feeder schools (i.e. to take in from community colleges and feed into other programs).  We are taking a wait-and-see approach, inviting her to visit campuses, to get to know comprehensive colleges.

			Our UFS President transmitted there are no plans to close any campuses. We have no reassurances about closure of programs.  Chancellor Johnson’s goals are to build an education cloud; to make life-long learning a reality, emphasizing big data as important; clean energy and green power (100% renewable before 2050), increasing partnerships between industry and SUNY.

			We have $4.4 billion deficit.  The governor will make ultimate decisions.  It’s not too late for us to have input.  Money for EOP being included goes back and forth between the various entities, for example.

			Student Assembly President wants to address food insecurity among students (25% of students across campuses).    They are also being asked to outline student priorities for where student fees are going by the end of the summer.  Student representative comments that taking away student activity fees is not good for students, it needs to be mandatory to support student activities.

			Other themes across multiple speakers include shared resources, shared best practices across SUNY system, IT resources, maximizing efficiency and innovation, sharing special equipment such as research (this involves equipment maintenance issues), big data is here to stay for making decisions and prioritizing programs, access/retention/completion, meeting resource needs, bringing SUNY into the global network, support for undocumented students.  We should consider:  what does success mean for our students?  Does it entail employment status or future education? 

			A resolution was passed for recommending an advisor for undocumented student needs.

			President of the Faculty Council of Community Colleges wants to switch from FTE model to operational model.  Students may not meet requirements for Excelsior.

			We are still in negotiations for our contract.

			Minna Barret previous Univ. Fac. Senator reminds us that we have the ability to initiate resolutions here to be sent.

			

				B. 	TLRC update on “Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning” (Jill Crocker)	

			Fall 2012 TLRC proposed to FS a dedicated space for teaching and learning excellence.  In collaboration with SAS a program will be piloted this semester.  Please note that many faculty have been involved in developing CETL, and thanks go out to them all.

			Three issues:

			TLRC will continue to do its work.

			CETL will pursue complementary work to TLRC.

			Now that the library is more completed we hope we can have some space in the library since it is a central location, possibly as a multi-use space.

			Faculty notes that we used to have designated space for a Teaching for Learning Center in the old Academic Village. 

			Maureen Dolan provides Point of Information on former Teaching for Learning Center. The TLC was established in 1999-2000 with state funding through a UUP campus technology grant; TLC also received start-up funding from NSF through LICIL grant dedicated to interconnected learning. TLRC was formed as a result of 2006 Bylaws revision, through merger of the Library Committee and TLC Committee (which used to run programs for Teaching for Learning Center). 

			Faculty notes that we should look at the Strategic Plan, since there is mention of faculty engagement center.

April 6, 12-3pm, TLRC Spring Conference themed “the future of higher education.”  (Request to folks to save the date.)

			

			VIII.  	Call to Senators:  Other New Business	

			

			Question from Senator: Is there any update on development of SPAAR, about providing a process for faculty input into resource allocation, planning, analysis?  Response from A. Barbera: SPAAR is in the strategic plan, which calls for creation of the committee to be implemented next semester.  It is not currently operational.

			

			VIII.	Announcements

			

			Veronika Dolar announces Up To Us Campaign, also see email. This Thursday, Feb. 15 at 11:20am, there will be interactive lecture about fiscal policy in NAB 1100.

			Joanne Spadaro announces there will be OER workshop on Feb 23rd in the morning in NAB 1100.  This is for faculty, administrators, and others.  Registration is still open.  Go to library website and search OER.

			Kathy Greenberg announces her thanks to Andy Mattson for stepping up into the Chair position.  Applause.

			

			IX.	Adjournment at 2:31pm	

			

			

			

		

			

8