STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday Sept 7, 2018 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100





*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive





Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Amna Kamil (SGA), Laura Anker (FY), Jason Kaloudis (Lib.), Roger Mayer (AC), Blidi Stemn (CE) , Jillian Nissen (BS), Camille Jones (CP), Deepa Jani (EN) , Jingyi Song (HP), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY), Martha Livingston (PH), Ryoko Yamamoto (SY) , Eric Hagan (VA), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)

  

Senators Absent:  William Gillis (At-Large), Yu Lei (MMF) , Andrew Hashey (EE) , Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Chris Hobson (ARPT), Llana Barber (LEC), Frank Sanacory (CAP)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Nancy Brown (Dean SOE), Barbara Hillery (Dean SAS)



Visitors:  Bonnie Eannone, Michael Kinane, Chris Notaro, Joanne Spadaro, Yumi Nicholson, Shalei Simms, Anthony Barbera, DoYoung Park, Claudia Marin Andrade, Fred Fleisher, Helidon Giergji, Jermaine Archer, Shalei Simms, Duncan Quarless, Jacob Heller





MINUTES

			   I.	Call to Order 12:37pm							

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of May 18, 2018

			

			The recognition of Minna Barrett’s service and leadership should be included in the record, as agreed to by the Senate.  This will be added to the minutes.

			The following updates and clarifications were noted:

			On p. 2 in section 6 in the Univ. Senator report it was asked whether the campus participated in re-enrollment?  YES

			Note that Excelsior is often called “last dollar funding” so students need to apply for other funding first.  Some students get TAP or PEL but Excelsior only activates after those other sources of funding.

			

			

			

			III.	Introduction of Senators

			

			Please note that only senators can vote on items, but all can introduce themselves.

			Each person at the tables introduces themselves.

			Note Chairs of standing committees are ex-officio and they also vote.

			Note that Ad-Hoc Committee chairs such as OER do not have voting rights.

			

			IV.	Approval of 2018-19 FS Meeting Schedule	

			

			The schedule is approved by voice vote unanimously with no abstentions or oppositions.

			

			V.	Special Order of Business (M. Dolan, Parliamentarian)	

				

			Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee Vice Chair

			

L. Morris nominates J. D’Ambroise.  A. Mattson asks J. D’Ambroise if she is willing to step up as chair in the event that the Chair cannot serve for any reason.  J. D’Ambroise confirms that she is comfortable with this contingency position and thanks A. Mattson for asking.  J. D’Ambroise is elected by unanimous consent.

			

			Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee Secretary/Treasurer

			

Secretary/Treasurer is an officer of the Senate. Any voting member of the Senate representing a department or any Senator-At-Large can be nominated.  Chairs of standing committees are not eligible to serve. Alternate senators are not eligible.  There are no nominations for this position. We will revisit this at next meeting.

			

			Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee At-Large Rep.

			

This person does not represents a department or any standing committee, but rather represents the Faculty Senate at large.  L. Morris nominates P. Ikeler and he declines.  M. Keefe is nominated by M. Dolan and she accepts.  There are no other nominations.  

A. Mattson expresses his dismay at the lack of nominations.  Why are only the existing EC members being nominated?  Why are folks volunteering to be on the senate if they are not willing to participate in governance?  Faculty comments that this is a big problem.  It did not used to be like this. Is this an administrative problem?  Is it a culture problem?  This is not good for the older or newer generations. He suggests to form an ad-hoc committee to look at the problem.  Faculty commends A. Mattson for his work as he has been very effective in the position.  A. Mattson comments that remember his nomination only came forward after no senators would come forward.  Faculty comments that many faculty feel overwhelmed by committee work etc..  Many times faculty work is not supported by administration and so faculty feel disenfranchised.  Visiting faculty comments that this is true.  The At-Large position, A. Mattson comments, is a great position for a junior faculty.  We want to see junior faculty.  Of course, M. Keefe is great for the position as well but the position would be well suited for junior folks.  Former At-Large member and junior member comments that it is not bad to have a senior member.  

D. Jani is nominated by J. Crocker.  D. Jani declines due to other workload.  

The Parliamentarian reminds Senators of the nomination on the floor. The nomination of M. Keefe is seconded.  However, it is realized that the PEL alternate senator is not eligible for the position.  This issue is postponed until next meeting.

Faculty asks where in the bylaws is the responsibilities for the At-Large position?   The Parliamentarian responds that the position is described on page 13 in the bylaws, under paragraph G.  The overall duties are implied by the name of position.  The Senate elects one of its members to the EC who represents the body to the EC. That persons acts as a conduit between Senate and the EC, sharing Senators’ concerns and suggestions with EC. A senator comments that you learn by doing and seeing.  From the admin side, the admins need to see that faculty are active.  The inability to elect folks to senate sends a message to admins.  Senate is an important voice for faculty.  Faculty comments that members should be active.  This is seconded.  M. Dolan, Parliamentarian, notes that this whole discussion was out of order but extremely informative.  

			

			VI.	FS Chair’s Report 	

			

SPAAR Task Force Update:  Faculty governance is still working with the Office of the President to create and charge the SPAAR Task Force, which will create and charge the Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, & Review Committee (SPAAR) to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Strategic Plan.  

Action Item: Senators, please advise the EC about your willingness to participate on the SPAAR Task Force and/or SPAAR Committee.  Active faculty participation will be crucial to the success of SPAAR and the Plan.

J. Heller notes that this committee does not require senators.  It is up to the faculty themselves to select members.   A. Mattson notes that governance should suggest to the President a list of people to serve.  We were supposed to send double the amount of folks, so that the President can choose from among them.  We could submit less than the double amount.  It should be an open and democratic process.  A. Barbera notes the double amount was a suggestion not agreed to by anyone.  We will see what happens in the negotiations.

Open Access Task Force Members Needed: Academic Affairs has asked Antonia Digregorio to chair the OATF and “develop an Open Access policy” for an accessible repository for scholarly and creative works. She is asking for three faculty members (SAS, SOB, SOE.) Links:

 http://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/open-access/

https://www.suny.edu/about/leadership/board-of-trustees/meetings/webcastdocs/Tab11_Campus%20Open%20Access%20Policies%20and%20System%20Repository.pdf 

Again, note that these members do not need to be senators.  A. Barbera explains that open access is with regards to research output.  SUNY suggests every campus has an electronic depository.  SUNY has D-space, an electronic depository.  How is our campus going to handle open access?  There is a deadline of spring 2021 by which we have to submit policy statement explaining how we will deal with open access.  Please go see the SUNY website and search open access to SUNY scholarship.

Committee Vacancies: The Faculty Senate Chair is charged with filling committee vacancies that remain unfilled after the election.

APPC:  Two vacancies filled. 

Katarzyna Platt (MMF/SOB)-U, runner-up, two-year appointment (2018-2020)

Yu Lei (MMF-SOB)-U, runner-up, two-year appointment (2018-2020) 

ARPT: One vacancy filled.

Fredrick Fleisher (VA/SAS)-U, one-year appointment (2018-2019) 

FJC: Two Vacancies for SAS representatives.  The Faculty Senate chair will appoint from list of runners-up to a one-year term (2018-2019).

FUAC: Three Vacancies. November due date looming.

FUAC (Stand.)

Distinguished Service Professor

 ????

 

FUAC (Stand.)

Distinguished Teaching Professor

 ????

 

FUAC (Stand.)

Prof. or Assoc. Prof. 10+ yrs (1 of 3)

McLaughlin, Patricia

2020

FUAC (Stand.)

Prof. or Assoc. Prof. 10+ yrs (2 of 3)

Kim Myong-Hi

2020

FUAC (Stand.)

Prof. or Assoc. Prof. 10+ yrs (3 of 3)

 ????

 

D. Quarless explains that FUAC is responsible for awards such as Distinguished Professor and Chancellor’s Award and Distinguished Adjunct.  The FS chair can send a designee, and that person would need to be at the rank of associate professor.  M. Livingston thought she was on the committee.  She thought you either have to be distinguished or excellent.  No, that was out-voted a while ago.  Yes, M. Livingston can serve.  It is ambiguous as to whether many Distinguished Professors can serve, rather than it being one slot to fill.  M. Dolan, Parliamentarian, reads description of membership of FUAC from the bylaws (Article III, section E, item 2): “The Committee shall consist of eight voting members, including a student representative, a Distinguished Service Professor, a Distinguished Teaching Professor, a Chancellor’s Award recipient, the Faculty Senate Chair (or designee).…”  FUAC must conform to SUNY guidelines. Faculty of distinguished rank have historically been a large proportion of FUAC membership. D. Quarless comments that if the committee did not have adequate membership then participation was solicited by someone representing Distinguished Professorship category.  “Shall include” means someone satisfying one of these criteria was the interpretation, not as a requirement.  It does not matter if it is many distinguished people.  We added the 10+ years but there is no requirement that there is one from every category.  Faculty refers to SUNY instructions for that committee, and it does say the person must be distinguished.  Faculty notes that the committee meets once and it is not that much work.  M. Livingston comments that when there is a person from a committee member’s department you must recuse yourself so this is a challenge for the committee in terms of being fully staffed.  The senate can vote to make an exception so that it is fully staffed.   We should refer the matter to FRRC for next bylaws revision. 

LEC:  One Vacancy Filled, One Vacancy Remains.

Humanities Domain Representative Needed: Faculty Senate Chair is contacting humanities departments for nominations for one-year appointment.

Basic Communications Vacancy filled by appointment of Anahi Douglas (ENG-SAS)-U to a one-year term (2018-2019.)

SLC:  One Vacancy.  Faculty Senate Chair will contact next 9 runners-up until vacancy if filled with one-year appointment (2018-2019.) 

			

			

			

			IV. 	Provost’s Report

			

			A. Barbera reports that middle states has begun for the next campus visit in spring 2021.  Please communicate to departments that this has been started. This will involve participation from all the entities on campus.  This is our regional accreditor.  For financial aid, accreditation is required.  Being involved in middle states results in tangible changes on campus.  There will be 3 co-chairs: J. Heller, A. Barbera, and M. Torrell.  M. Torrell is now the faculty co-chair since J. Heller moved into an admin position.  There will be a middle states exec. committee of 5-6 people and another committee of more people.  Tentatively there will be 8 working groups.  Middle States has combined from 14 standards to 7.  The 8th group will work on a separate report called the compliance report where we provide evidence of compliance to federal regulations including transfer policy, communication with students, student ID verification, etc..  This effort in total will require about 100 people.  For faculty we like to get a mix of senior and new people.  Senior has knowledge and junior will get knowledge.  You will learn how pieces of the campus operate.  Key dates:  

			workshop planning in November

			spring 2019 we will create a design document

			the middle states liason comes on campus next spring for a preliminary visit to approve the plan for our self-study

			2019-2020 working groups will work

			fall 2020 middle states chair will visit campus to review draft of plan and meet with various bodies on campus

			spring 2021 actual Middle States campus visit

			Please address any questions about middle states to the co-chairs.  

			Faculty suggest sending info about what the senate committees are.  This will happen during the TLRC new faculty committee, but new faculty are pressured much earlier and they are not provided information.  Committees are explained in the bylaws.  The intention has been to do faculty orientation before classes start.  TLRC Chair reports that their orientation focuses on teaching.  FRRC reports to new faculty at the full faculty meeting so they should report on committee functions.

			D. Quarless reports that OER had 12 courses last year (10 in spring, 2 in fall).  This fall we already have 12 courses.  In terms of SUNY’s funding there is now funding for an OER degree program.  New OER creation is a priority.  This includes writing OER textbooks but goes beyond this to include faculty teams.  For more info contact J. Spodaro or D. Quarless.  Note the deadline of Sept 12th for the funding, see emails in your inbox and forthcoming.  D. Quarless will send an email about the funding for OER project creation.  For a project it could go up to $35,000.  This would be a robust project.

			D. Quarless reports that the Applied Learning group is working on campus with a number of members.  If you are interested in having a course tagged for applied learning please connect with the Applied Learning group.  Last year’s AL group included Minna Barrett (SAS), Madelaine Crocitto (SOB) and Blidi Stemm (SOE). There will be a faculty committee put together (ad-hoc) for applied learning.  For this year 165 course sections carried AL tags.

			D. Quarless reports that the online course evaluation system had some problems. The new system will be Blue. There is an implementation team to deal with the IT portion so that Blue will be online for fall course evaluations.

			D. Quarless reports that the micro-credential task force has been meeting and they will report soon to the faculty senate.

			D. Quarless introduces the new VP for Institutional Assessment J. Heller.

			J. Heller introduces the new Associate Provost D. Quarless.

			J. Heller reports on enrollments.  If you want to receive the daily registration reports please contact J. Heller.  OW hit the milestone of 5,001 students.  We met the headcount undergraduate enrollment goal but we did not meet the graduate student goal.  We have  exceeded goals for:  first-time to college, continuing undergraduates, and FTE (full-time equivalent).  We did not meet the goal for transfer students.  Transfers are down SUNY wide.  We continue to add students through the add/drop period.  After 3 weeks there is an official count for SUNY funding.  We stop enrolling students at the end of add/drop. Freshman admissions stops in May.  M. Livingston comments that we are addressing the fallout from financial cancellation – it causes chaos in our student’s lives.   Y. Nicholson states that about 170 students are marked as financially cancelled as of 9/6.  M. Dolan asks if the increase above FTE goals, especially in the case of the First Year, is accompanied by proportionate increase in FY funding such as resources for community placements, transportation, linked courses? Response was yes, there is accommodation for additional sections. Faculty comments that continuing and returning has been a problem but this time it is not a problem.  The more we can reduce our reliance on transfers the better.  L. Anker emphasizes that when students are financially cancelled this is very difficult. 

			The first meeting of the senate we should talk about what issues will be coming up this year.  J. D’Ambroise comments that there is a list of acronyms on the faculty senate website and we will do our best to continue to add to the website with the collaboration of everyone here.

			

			

			

			VIII.	New Business

			

				A.	TLRC Annual Report (J. Crocker)

			

TRLC report is attached.  Please read the report.  Parliamentarian notes that Senate needs to vote to receive annual report from standing committee. Motion to receive the report is seconded and approved by unanimous consent.

				

			

			IX.	Call to Senators:  Other New Business and Announcements are combined by the Chair

			

			Faculty comments that the word freshman is confusing.  We can call students first year.  Students introduce themselves as freshman.  Should the women be introducing themselves this way?  In class we discussed this word should not be used.  Students agreed to not use this word or try to eliminate this word.  Can we eliminate this word legally?

			M. Livingston announces that we should please see the email that our new contract was overwhelmingly ratified.  Our first UUP general meeting is Thursday Sept 27 at noon in the multipurpose room.  See email for further announcements.

			M. Livingston announces that many are members in good standing, but we ask members of UUP to re-up by filling out the forms provided.  Put the forms in the mail.  The forms are passed around the room.  The newsletter is also passed out.  Please email M. Livingston with any questions.  

			M. Livingston will attend the NYC parade tomorrow.  

			J. Crocker announces that TLRC hosts on Sept 21st the new faculty orientation.  All can join us for lunch.  Please watch out for the email announcement.

			J. Crocker announces that CETL (the Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning) is active and please contact her with questions.

			

			

			XI.	Adjournment 2:35pm			

6