On Mon, Nov 3, 2014 at 2:32 PM, Marren, Joseph <MARRENJJ@buffalostate.edu>‬ wrote:‬

Just a reminder that Pete wants to hear from me about the questions he asked us (see below). He gave the sector reps a deadline of around the Thanksgiving holiday to get back to him with answers, which means I need to hear from everyone by Nov. 21 to compile all the info to send him.

Thanks,

Joe

Although the senators from the comprehensive colleges stated several concerns about the proposed SUNY Excels initiative and seamless transfer, the best way to summarize the concerns is to say that we are worried about what is perceived to be a quick pace in the erosion of faculty input into academic programs. For example, the centralized set of metrics that SUNY System will use to determine finances for SUNY Excels thus far has been written without faculty feedback. If it will indeed be an increase in base aid to comprehensive colleges then the MOUs must spell out what each president (and college) is accountable for and must stress options if the campus doesn’t reach a stated goal.

When one gets into the particulars there is a great deal of disparity, above and beyond base funding, with SUNY Excels. We all agree that our base funding needs to increase, but it seems that the SUNY Excels initiative has too much emphasis on Open SUNY. We are not opposed to online learning but there is also a priority need to address fundamental challenges: We need full-time faculty and staff. We understand where SUNY Excels is coming from and we realize there have to be goals, but not meeting goals should not be a punishment as long as base funding is maintained. Therefore, the senators from the sector are asked to send to the sector rep by the Thanksgiving break thoughts on:

		What elements they feel would be appropriate for their campuses

		What elements they would be inappropriate for their campuses.

Joe Marren

chair and associate professor

212 Bishop Hall

Communication Department SUNY Buffalo State

1300 Elmwood Ave.

Buffalo, NY 14222-1095

(716) 878-6008

marrenjj@buffalostate.edu



Minna, thank you! This is an excellent interview. Vinton Thompson's analysis is exactly right. I transcribed part of it to share with my department, relating to the six-year graduation rate--the least fair, and most damaging, measurement of student "success":



This measurement leaves out students who start college on a part-time basis. It leaves out students who transfer to your institution. And it also leaves out in effect students who start out at your institution and transfer somewhere, complete successfully and then are not counted as graduates....



There are a whole series of characteristics of students that are correlated with lower graduation rates. That includes part-time attendance, which isn’t surprising as it’s hard to finish in four or even six years if you if you’re only going half-time. And it’s well understood that commuter students have less persistence to graduation than residential students, that students of non-traditional age--that is older, working students--have less persistence to graduation. The same is also true of African American and Latino students, students of Hispanic origin. And of men....



The present metric that looks solely at one category of incoming student is really inadequate. We need to get a handle on the trajectory of students who are entering on a part-time basis. We need to do a better job of tracking students through the higher educational system, in which many students—many students—move through several institutions graduate successfully before completing successfully



Amanda Frisken