STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, April 27, 2018
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location NAB 1100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise
(M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Maureen Dolan
(Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large),
Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional),
Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Minna Barrett (FYE), Yu Lei (MMF), Andrew Hashey
(EE), Deepa Jani (EN), Lorenz Neuwirth (PY), Shijian Li (PH), Jacob Heller (SY) , Eric Hagan (VA),
Frank Sanacory (CAP), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)
Senators Absent: William Gillis (Senator At-Large, Alt. Univ. Senator), Peter Ikeler (Senator AtLarge), Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Linval Frazer (AC),
Xavier Marechaux (AE), Blidi Stemn (CE), Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Jillian Nissen (BS), Judy Lloyd
(CP), Jingyi Song (HP), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Chris Hobson (ARPT),
Llana Barber (LEC), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP
Inst. Adv.), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Barbara Hillery (Dean SAS)
Visitors: Chris Notaro, Bonnie Eannone, Shalei Simms, Rebecca Rothe

I.

Call to Order 12:35pm

II.

Approval of Minutes of Apr 13, 2018

MINUTES

• The minutes are approved by voice vote.
III.

Faculty Senate Chair’s Report
•

SPAAR Task Force: Faculty governance is working with the Office of the President to
create and charge the SPAAR Task Force, which will create and charge the Strategic
Planning, Assessment, Analysis, & Review Committee (SPAAR) which will be coordinating
and monitoring the implementation of the Strategic Plan.
o Action Item: Senators, please advise the EC about your willingness to participate
on the SPAAR Task Force and/or SPAAR Committee by May 15th. Active faculty
participation will be crucial to the success of SPAAR and the Plan.
1

•

•

Micro Credential Working Group: In response to the request for guidance from CAP, the
EC is considering the creation of a working group to draft a proposal to be submitted to
CAP and the EC and then approved by the Senate. The working group could consist of one
representative each from the following: SOB, SOE, SAS, SPS, TLRC, CAP, Registrar,
Academic Affairs, SGA.
o Action Item: Senators, are you willing to serve on this working group? Contact the
FS Chair if you are interested.
Faculty Compensation: How shall we improve the transparency and accountability of
the process for assessing faculty compensation including compression, inversion, gender,
and other issues relating to the salary equity? The FS chair consulted with Dr. Jacob
Heller, chair of the 2015-2016 Joint Faculty-Administration Task Force on Salary Inequity,
which made recommendations. Dean Barbara Hillery recommends that a renewed
discussion of salary inequity address staff salary inequity.
o Action Item: Senators, please advise the EC of your willingness to participate in a
EC working group on Salary Inequity.

•

Virtual Workplace Software Selection for Active Learning Library Classrooms: CIO
Evan Kobalakis requested faculty representation on an ITS/Capital Planning project team
to select of “Virtual Workplace” software. The FS chair worked with the Deans to
nominate the following faculty members:
o SOB: Katarzyna Platt (nominated by Dean Raj Devasagayam, Platt has accepted.)
o SOE: Andrew Hashey (nominated by Dean Nancy Brown, Hashey tentatively
accepted pending explanation of schedule from the CIO.)
o SAS: Fernando Nieto & Jillian Crocker (current Faculty Representatives on
Technology Committee.)

IV.

President’s Report
• The President cannot be here today.

V.

Provost’s Report
• Projected enrollment for first time to college and transfer students is increasing.
Acceptances and applications are running ahead of last year. We are projected to enroll
about 680-700 freshmen a.k.a. first time to college students. Last year we had 650, the
year before it was 520, and the year before that it was 400. The demand has increased.
We are monitoring the number of acceptances and the deposits so that when we get to
680-700 we will then close the freshman acceptances. We cannot take any more than that.
For transfer students we expect 850. We are monitoring transfers in biology and
psychology. The Provost has met with both departments. Psychology is in high demand.
They have 600 majors currently, and they are stretched to the limit. Biology is also in high
demand. There will be no caps for enrollment this Fall. Psychology is looking at an
admission system to winnow applicants in a reasonable way. Admissions criteria will be
released once we have it.
• Office of Academic Affairs Student Success Center Functions chart shows visually the
functions in the area of student success. The goal is to increase retention. We will
continue to invest in support services. The Provost introduces Rachel and Rebecca. They
are working on the 2nd floor of the campus center in transfer student services. Chris
2

•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•

•

•

Notaro supervises the unit. 80% of our students are transfer. We have noticed based on
the data students are leaving after a few years. Some students go to Stony Brook and some
leave for programs we don’t offer. They are also working on articulation agreements
coordination in order to ensure a certain consistency with transfer students. We will add
more to the student success area. Please send any questions about student records and
classes off campus to Rachel and Rebecca. Andy Mattson thanks Rachel and Rebecca for
their great work. Improving communication with transfer students is a big headache for
faculty and your work is greatly appreciated.
Career development and planning is also under the umbrella of functions in the Student
Success Center.
We will hire a student completion coach to help students with early interventions
including EAB.
See the handout for all functions of the Student Success Center.
Faculty asks if the transfer population will be limited. Last year we had 900 transfer
students. Yes, some mechanism will be applied.
A graph is provided for the six-year graduation rate. This graph is part of a larger
document on graduation and retention sent to department chairs. The graph shows we
have improved our retention. Nationally the six-year graduation rate is about 53-57%. At
SUNY comprehensives some have percentages at 60% and others are up to 70-80%. Four
year public colleges with diversity grad rate about 37-39%. We are doing better than this
and we want to do even better, we want 60%. Although the graph bounces around it is not
drawn proportionally, but the Provost wanted you all to have the information. The actual
line is more flat.
Pointing to the Six Roles for Faculty handout. There are six key ways units and faculty can
help students successfully navigate their careers. The Provost reviews quickly the six
steps. EAB is part of step five to help flag student signs of risk.
Handout: How does a four-year degree become a six-and-a-half year degree? It is shown
in research that successful students complete 15 credits in a semester, keeping them at
pace. Faculty comments that this appears more of a description of success paths, but it
does not address the “whys”. There is no analysis in here; it is descriptive only. There are
social structures and inequities that keep people from graduating. Students who can pay
can complete, and can take enough credits. We need a deeper analysis.
Handout: 4 design choices undermining new program success. The Provost reports that
there are 10-20 students who, after completing the spring semester, have one course left
for graduation. They cannot walk for commencement and the course was not offered in
the summer. Nobody organizes the curriculum this way, and student may have taken the
courses in a bad sequence, no one in particular is at fault. We need to help students to
successfully complete in time so that they do not incur more debt. The Provost does not
wish to intervene in curriculum, but these students came to the Provost.
Evan Rufrano asks if Academic Affairs will support a program similar to University of
Buffalo about contractual agreement with students to guarantee graduation in four years.
The Provost states that such universities have different demographics. We need to talk
more about it. Faculty comments that retention and time to completion have been
problems for us. We have one of the lowest rates when compared to other SUNY
campuses. This puts us in a bad position. Some courses we may not offer at the right time.
Senator comments that in high school every classroom has a smart board, and they come
here and professor is having problems getting the projector to work. We need to invest.
We should change our college as a transitional college, because it is what we now are. The
Provost has calculated our success rate including graduation rate for students who
transfer to other places such as Stony Brook. This should be included in our success rate.
3

• Laura Anker from First Year comments it is important in the retention and completion
data to separate out those students who transfer within SUNY. There are students who are
included who never attended, or even who passed away.
• Jon Kleinman comments that his experience in advising that he knows students who are
working with an advisor and they are completing. Students who do not complete are
failing courses or not choosing classes with the help of an advisor. We need to use
technology we have invested in to help us. For winter classes, it is very tight to squeeze in
a whole semester. As an advisor J. Kleinman points out there is much demand for summer
and winter classes.
• Faculty comments that the Strategic Plan requires each department to do analysis like this.
VI.

Point of Information (Maureen Dolan, Parliamentarian)
• M. Dolan provides a handout with an overview of Faculty Senate Activities over time.
Sampling of activities is organized in various categories: matters of the educational
program, matters of student life, campus development, the physical plant (including
energy analysis, health and safety, indoor environmental quality), budget, planning,
institutional effectiveness, outreach and ethics. See handout below attached to the
minutes.

VII.

Old Business
A.
•
•

•

•

•

•

•

Resolution on the Conduct of Senate Meetings (Jacob Heller)
Following a motion from the floor and a second, the Senate approves by voice vote
taking the resolution off the table.
The Parliamentarian states that amendments to resolution need to be voted on first,
before voting on the body of resolution. There is also the option of breaking resolution
into sections or paragraphs, and voting on each section separately. The sense of the
Senate is to discuss and amend each paragraph separately.
M. Barrett suggests a number of changes:
o “should include” (instead of “shall include”)
o restricted to the time allotted on the agenda (strike brief), with proviso that the
Chair and has discretion to extend time, and Senate may vote to extend time
o strike the parenthetical statement
o discussion and/or debate in the reports and presentations part
In first Whereas clause, a Senator comments that Governance is a requirement; it is not
on a volunteer basis. It is suggested to strike volunteer basis. Although it is voluntary,
it is obligatory. Voluntary does not convey the seriousness of the business. Voting in
favor 5, opposed 10, abstentions 6 – “volunteer” stays.
In third Whereas clause, efficient should be changes to “effective”, “broader” should be
added to where it says deeper, and should state “and the resolution of outstanding
issues”. Changes are seconded and approved by vote: in favor 21, opposed 0, abstain 0.
In the 2nd Resolved clause, the word report should be changed to “formal report” and it
should specify “committee” report. Changes are seconded and approved by voice vote:
in favor 18, opposed 0, abstain 0.
Suggestion to change “shall” to “should”? Should is so weak, but “shall” is weaker than
must. Suggestion for “should” is withdrawn.
4

•
•
•
•

•

•
B.
•

For the change of adding “resolution” after updates: in favor 19, opposed 0, abstain 0.
For stating “restricted to the time allotted”: in favor 18, opposed 0, abstain 0.
Strike the parenthetical statement: in favor 17, opposed 0, abstain 0.
The Executive Committee should be able to suspend rules for meeting conduct by
majority vote since the agenda is created before the meeting starts. Suggestion that we
can have a majority of senate OR the executive committee suspend rules for meeting
conduct: in favor 18, opposed 0, abstain 0.
Faculty suggests that, as a compromise to keeping intact the “volunteer” language, we
could additionally insert “duties and responsibilities” after faculty time: in favor 18,
opposed 0, abstain 0.
The resolution as amended is approved by voice vote: in favor 20, opposed 0, abstain 0.
Call for Nominations: Faculty Senate Chair
The next senate meeting is May 18th. This is final meeting of academic year. All
nominations should be emailed to the Secretary by May 17th. Nominations for FS Chair
are from the currently seated full-time faculty members of the Senate.

VIII. New Business
A.

Academic Scheduling Analytics System (Jacob Heller)
•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•
•

The idea of the software is to make academic scheduling more efficient. There is a
SUNY performance improvement fund paying $113,000 of the cost for the first
three years. In the 3rd year the college will pay $30,000 dollars. The Provost has
signed a contract for this because there are timelines for the SUNY fund. This will
provide data for optimizing the schedule for student needs so there is less
uncertainty in scheduling. This is not binding. It is just additional info provided to
chairs.
Faculty asks whether we want scheduling to be more efficient or more effective? In
what ways is our scheduling not effective? Faculty may choose times based on
when they want to teach. Taking a look at the impact of scheduling and access to
quality instruction. Is scheduling equally distributed? Teaching at night is not
equally distributed.
This will not deal with common hour. It will deal with the schedule as it exists.
Faculty comments that Common hour causes problems. Do we need four days of
common hour?
Faculty comments that this scheduling will not connect to our catalog. The group of
five people is slowly continuing to investigate catalog options. This is not payed for
by the PI fund, and there is time to choose among the options. There are not any
options available in the market to do similar analytics.
Faculty asks if this scheduling system is more demand-side than supply-side? Yes,
the motivation is to serve students better and more effective. If X students need
certain courses, the software will ensure they will not be offered at the same time.
We are not sure if it has a wait-list function.
E. Rufrano comments that the software is great. It is has done wonders for
Fredonia.
We are enrolling more students but we also lose a lot of students.
Faculty asks, where is the data coming from? System takes five years of data.
5

B.

Resolution on Carbon Footprint (Maureen Dolan)
•

•
•
•
•

•

•

•
IX.

Call to Senators: Other New Business
A.

X.

EC should make contact with Bio and scientists on campus about species evaluation.

Announcements
A.

XI.

This resolution is in response to the parking lot project. At the last Senate meeting,
Dr. Butts stated that parking lot project is proceeding as planned. The March 16th
resolution passed by Senate, including faculty comments submitted to SUCF and
DEC, was apparently not considered before decision was made to move project
forward. Sustainability is part of our mission. We have required by state to have
campus stewardship plan, and we have been recognized as a Tree Campus. The
planned removal of 8 acres of mature trees will have measurable environmental
impact, including adverse incremental impact on campus carbon footprint in the
absence of mitigation measures. SUNY and state sustainability policies require that
institutions show improvements in renewable energy and reductions in greenhouse
gas emissions. The Faculty have authority and responsibility to weigh in.
The resolution is read into the record. Motion to allow discussion of resolution is
seconded and passed: In favor 18, opposed 0, abstain 0.
The Chair states that, due to late time, discussion is limited today to five minutes.
Faculty suggests that assessment of campus carbon footprint be done at peak time,
not during summer.
Faculty asks if M. Dolan can bring more information about how this is established at
other campuses. How we have been able to avoid it? Why are we allowed to duck?
Dolan responds that SUNY Energy and Sustainability policies were enacted by the
Board of Trustees in 2007. Campus administrators and staff were made aware of
expectations. The Governor has in recent years advanced a renewable energy
vision. The new Chancellor has called for zero-net energy and zero-net emissions.
Faculty comments that there should be an addition to resolution for a bio-census.
We have no idea if there are species under pressure. The college decided SEQRA is
not needed because the state has changed the laws. This is why viewing governance
as voluntary is inappropriate. This is a good example of what happens when we
decide governance is voluntary and when we don’t make it a priority.
E. Rufrano asks, where is funding coming from? Dolan responds that funding for
clean energy and sustainability is available through state programs administered
through NYSERDA. Currently campus governance is not represented in capital
planning. More info about zero-net energy funding streams is requested.
Due to time constraint, discussion on resolution will continue at next meeting.

Minna’s retirement party. Please attend on May 11th and RSVP to Laura Anker.

Adjournment 2:30pm

6

Point of Information
Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
Faculty Senate Meeting of April 27, 2018
Faculty Senate Activities: an Overview
Background:
• Actions and Activities undertaken by Faculty Senate may span weeks, months or semesters.
• Faculty Senate activities include resolutions, reports, initiatives, hearings, town halls, investigations,
analyses, task forces, establishment of new Standing or college-wide committees, joint effort.
• Areas of Faculty Senate activity include broad matters within the Authority of the Faculty, as
empowered through Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, through established governance structure,
consistent with UFS standards and practices.
• Breadth and depth of FS activities include matters of the educational program, student life, facilities,
quality of life, budget, planning, operations, campus development, ethics, energy and sustainability.
• Effective outcomes from Faculty Senate activities contribute to institutional effectiveness.

A Brief Sampling of Faculty Senate Activities
In Matters of the Educational Program:
• Deliberation and approval to establish Honors College.
• Deliberation and approval of Latin Honors; approval of policy to establish Grade Point Average.
• Deliberation and approval of Master Plan amendment to allow granting of Graduate Degrees.
• Deliberation and approval of change to Selectivity matrix for FTC students.
• Facilitation of Special Meetings of the Faculty regarding NCATE accreditation.
• Deliberation and approval for departments within each School to be represented on Faculty Senate.
• Faculty Senate-led initiative for local control of General Education: program design, rubrics and
assessment, in collaboration with UFS task force, leading to establishment of GEC (now LEC).
In Matters of Student Life
• Deliberation and actions regarding minimum GPA for Freshmen Residents (including presentation
of FS resolution to College Council).
• Deliberation and actions regarding zero-tolerance policy (including presentation to College College).
• Comprehensive initiative regarding revisions to college judicial process and Code for Student
Conduct (including presentations to College Council).
• Establishment of Faculty Judicial Committee as part of college judicial process (involved revision
to Faculty Bylaws, 2009).
In Matters of Campus Development
• Actions in opposition to building Nassau County Police Academy on Old Westbury campus,
involved College Council Chair and NC Police Commissioner appearing at Faculty Senate hearing.
• Faculty Senate-led hearings on proposed Land Lease Legislation (1998-1999) which would allow
campus development such as Sports/medicine complex, hotel/conference center, residential housing
proposed for Old Westbury.
• Faculty Senate-led hearings on Open Space Preservation Legislation (1999-2000) to counteract
Land Lease Legislation and proposed development projects on Old Westbury campus.
• Faculty Senate comments in response to State University Construction Fund re. Parking Lot Project
and Short Environmental Impact Form (SEIF) prepared by SUCF contractor for DEC (2018).

Page 2 of 2

In Matters of the Physical Plant
• Faculty Senate-led investigation of IEQ (indoor environmental quality), including air quality, health,
safety, cleanliness of campus facilities (per APPA standards) with focus on Academic Village;
facilities reports initiated by FS were brought to attention of SUNY, other state agencies (1995-1997).
• Faculty Senate-led energy audit of Old Westbury campus, with focus on Academic Village; energy
analysis initiated by FS came to the attention of SUNY and NYSERDA (1997-1998).
• Regular reports to Faculty Senate on energy conservation, energy efficiency, renewable energy
projects proposed for Old Westbury by NYSERDA, SAIC, LIPA, EnLink GeoEnergy (1998-2002).
• Establishment of Campus Green Committee (ad hoc college-wide committee convened 2009-2010)
per mandate SUNY Energy & Sustainability Policy, enacted by SUNY Board of Trustees, Nov.2007;
re-establishment of Campus Green Committee included in 2018-2023 Strategic Plan.
In Matters of Budget, Planning and Institutional Effectiveness
• Faculty Senate-led Strategic Plan (in response to Rethinking SUNY, 1995) identified over $1Mil in
cost savings as an alternative to retrenchment of academic programs and faculty; FS Strategic Plan
was delivered by college’s CFO as campus response to pending 10% reduction in operating budget.
• Faculty Senate-led budget analyses, all divisions, including benchmarking vs. peer institutions and
development of metrics for institutional effectiveness, informed by best practices in SUNY campus
budget process (2000-2002).
• Regular reports to Faculty Senate by Senate representative from College-wide Budget Planning
Committee (1992-2002); Senator from BPC is codified in Faculty Bylaws.
• Faculty Senate-led 360° Review of senior administration, including performance indicators for
academic and non-academic units (all divisions), analyses and metrics for institutional effectiveness,
including in areas of resource allocation, M&O, student support, institutional advancement; 300 page
report initiated by FS was provided to SUNY Chancellor, College Council, Board of Trustees (1997).
• Faculty Senate joint effort in Strategic Planning during the past two decades, including in 1998,
1999-2000, 2008-2010, and most recently, joint effort in 2016-18 for 2018-2023 Strategic Plan.
In Matters of Governance Outreach
• Faculty Senate-led investigation, at the behest of 400+ students who signed petition sent to FS Office,
regarding alleged misconduct by faculty in a certain department; report of ad hoc Ethics Committee
was presented at special meeting of FS (June 1996); broader recommendations led to establishment of
Faculty Rights & Responsibilities Committee as a Special (now standing) Committee of the Senate
• Faculty Senate initiative to improve the proportion and composition of faculty participation in
governance; concerted effort resulted in faculty participation increasing from 35% to 50% of faculty,
including improved balance of senior and junior faculty (2005-2009).
• FS activities to improve interface with SGA, including outreach to SGA to fill 3 seats on Faculty
Senate, FS workshops on the budget at SGA meetings, outreach by faculty on Residential Life (and
other committees) for students to bring concerns and actionable items to Faculty Senate.
• Faculty Senate initiative to improve interface with the College Council, including regular written
reports to the Council; invitation to members and chair of College Council to attend FS meetings.