page 3 of3

Some Background on Budget/Planning
Precedence at Old Westbury:
2001

The 2003/2008 Capital Plan Team was charged by President Butts with developing the college’s next

capital plan, through the collaborative and participatory process developed by the State University
Construction Fund. This was an intense planning effort, working continuously from April-August 2001;
additional analyses and documents were produced in Fall 2001, in conjunction with SUCF and their
consultants (architects and planners). This participatory effort was very efficient, productive, and

included input from all campus constituencies.

This enormous effort was successful because the capital plan committee was empowered to do its work.
The Committee Chair was empowered to obtain information, when needed, from off-campus sources
(including SUCF and their consultants), and to obtain additional research materials, e.g., on asbestos
abatement, indoor air quality, energy projects, and campus space inventory. The Capital Plan team effort
succeeded in completing a $100Mil capital plan under a much more condensed time-frame than other
campuses. (Note: [f there’s a will, there’s a way.) This level of efficiency, and the empowerment of a
collaborative and participatory process, has not yet been replicated by the Budget Planning Committee.
1995
In response to the fiscal crisis of 1995 (arising from “Rethinking SUNY”), the Collegewide Budget
Planning Committee engaged in an intense, focused, collaborative effort with the Faculty Senate

Strategic Planning Committee and the CAP Committee. From May-September 1995, these various

groups (with a combined membership of about 30) convened almost weekly to develop a rational plan to
absorb the pending $1Million reduction in the college’s operating budget. The faculty members on the
BPC participated fully in all information gathering, analyses and planning, including the detailed review

of budgets and operations for all division and functional areas, and including extensive interviews with
department heads, directors and physical plant staff.

As a result of this well-coordinated, open and inclusive process, the Strategic Planning Committee and
the BPC were prepared to present to the President a budget that would have met the $1Mil reduction
target through a combination of: administrative restructuring, operational efficiencies
(through an Early Retirement Incentive package offered by SUNY in 1995-1996). As
recollect, the president at the time had a different “agenda”, and chose to disband the
receive its report. So although an intense [and ultimately ill-fated] collegewide effort
strategic plan to meet the 1995-1996 budget reduction through attrition, restructuring
the president opted instead to retrench performing arts and other academic programs.

and attrition
some of you may
BPC rather than
produced a
and efficiencies,
This action

resulted in a vote of no confidence against the president, in the area of budgeting and planning.

In view of current BPC operations, is not the size of Old Westbury’s BPC which presents a problem.
At 18 members (2 of whom serve ex officio), our BPC is mid-range. Nor is a collaborative and

participatory effort, at this point in time, “expecting too much”. Although such a budget planning model
is not required in SUNY, it is found to be normative and has long been recommended by Middle States.
Additionally, there is precedence for collaborative and participatory efforts at Old Westbury, e.g., in the
concerted efforts of the 1995 Collegewide Budget Planning Committee/Strategic Planning Committee,
and in last summer’s capital planning effort. The underlying issue in not the “concept” or the “structure”

of the BPC model sought by faculty governance, but rather whether there exists the will - on the part of
administration - to engage with faculty in a collaborative and participatory process.

submitted by Maureen Dolan, BPC Chair