Resolution for Proposal for
A Micro-Credential in Professional Skills for the Workplace
WHEREAS, the School of Professional Studies proposed a Micro-Credential in Professional
Skills for the Workplace, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential is designed to help students cultivate a working
knowledge of internal operations in economic enterprises and marketing of goods and services,
and would expand career opportunities for those who are among socially and economically
vulnerable groups, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential helps develop skills that would give graduating
students and displaced workers a competitive edge in securing and succeeding in employment in
growing professional, business and scientific services sectors and other fields, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential consists of required courses for Professional
Studies majors and could boost enrollment in these courses, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential consists of two existing courses and requires no
additional resource,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the proposed MicroCredential in Professional Skills for the Workplace.

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), November 13, 2020
The Proposal approved by CAP on November 13, 2020
[CAP Membership]
Tejas Bouklas, Svetlana Jovic, Yu Lei, Matthew Lippert, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Sheyi Oladipo,
Dana Sinclair, Kerry Weir, and Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)

Professional Skills for the Workplace Micro-Credential - Overview
School of Professional Studies
Description, Purposes and Structure
Workers, especially minorities and women, are bearing the brunt of the unemployment
caused by the Covid crisis. Worse, their prospects for recovery are threatened by longer term
changes in the economy and workplace that favor skills in management and marketing over
production and services. Because the SPS’ mission is to support the College’s mission and
serve traditionally bypassed students through “innovative … programs that meet the needs of
working adults,” the School is proposing a Micro-Credential entitled “Professional Skills for
the Workplace” designed to help workers needing to upgrade their skills and students
preparing to enter the workforce gain basic knowledge of management and marketing to help
them secure and succeed in positions in the emerging economy. The Micro will consist of
one course in management and one in marketing, which together will give students a
theoretical and practical introduction to how economic enterprises conduct their internal
operations and promote the goods or services they offer.

Objectives
Students who complete these courses at the stipulated level will have demonstrated:
• Knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of supervision: planning, organizing,
staffing, recruiting, managing, motivating, analyzing problems, and decision making for
multicultural enterprises.
• Knowledge and understanding of marketing fundamentals: The 4Ps -- product, price,
place, and promotion -- and their interrelationships, marketing research, consumer and
environmental analysis, international marketing, marketing management, responsible
marketing practices and soft skills development through team collaboration.
• Awareness of marketing and supervision issues that arise within organizations and how to
utilize this knowledge to successfully implement solutions.
• An ability to communicate effectively with workers, organizational leadership, customers,
peers, and community stakeholders.
• An ability to critically appraise situations and synthesize theoretical knowledge and
practical experience.
• Understanding of ethical practices in the workplace and the marketplace to promote a
positive work environment for an increasingly diverse workforce, and an enterprise’s
social and environmental responsibilities.

Assessment
The Micro-Credential’s Learning outcomes will be measured by students’ performance on
relevant course assignments in each course, using the College’s standard assessment rubric.
The courses will be assessed as part of the SPS’ ongoing rotation of assessments, and the
program as part of the Professional Studies department’s periodic reviews.

Additional Information or Considerations
The Professional Skills for the Workplace Micro-Credential is supported by an advisory
committee consisting of two external members familiar with the local economy and minority
groups’ needs within it, and one from within Old Westbury. The classes that make up the
Micro-Credential are already offered by the SPS as part of the core requirements of its
Professional Studies degree. The program will therefore not require any additional costs,
support services, or other institutional resources. The faculty teaching the courses are the
program’s full-time faculty member and the SPS assistant director, who has taught the course
many times, including as an adjunct for the SPS before moving into his current position.

Proposal for a Micro-Credential
Professional Skills for the Workplace
School of Professional Studies
November 5, 2020
A. Purpose
Workers on Long Island today are caught in a perfect storm. On the one hand, the
Covid crisis has caused a crash in employment, with layoffs particularly affecting
minority and women workers. On the other hand, the prospect of recovery for these
workers is diminished due to longer-term changes in the economy and workplace that
favor management and marketing positions over production and service jobs.
According to Nora Bassett, President of Core Management Solutions and a member of
the Board of Trustees of the Old Westbury College Foundation, even production-level
workers who remain employed are under increased pressure to handle traditionally
managerial tasks as companies are forced to operate with reduced staffing. There is
thus a need for programs that will help these workers, whether employed or
unemployed, upgrade their knowledge and skills to secure employment as the economy
recovers and evolves.
With its Mission to support “the College’s mission by expanding access to higher
education” by “offering innovative courses and programs that meet the needs of working
adults”, the SPS is designed to provide the kind of program that the current situation
calls for. It is therefore proposing to create a two-course, eight credit Micro-Credential
that will equip workers needing to upgrade their skills with a working knowledge of how
economic enterprises manage their internal operations and market the goods or
services they offer. This will give them, and potentially matriculated students preparing
to enter the workforce as well, a competitive edge in securing and succeeding in the
kind of employment opportunities that are growing even as many traditional jobs
disappear.
B. Demand
The Covid-19 pandemic has created significant economic losses due to business
closures across many sectors. In our region, the unemployment rate for the period
ending August 2020 was 10.5% for Nassau-Suffolk and 16.3% for New York City, in
contrast to 3.9% and 4.2% in the same period last year.1 Unemployment among
minority groups is particularly high: based on the Labor Department's July jobs report,
the rate for Black adults was just under 15%, Hispanic workers just under 13%, and
Asian workers 12%, while the rate for White workers was just over 9%.
Just as the impact of the downturn has been uneven, the prospects for recovery are
uneven due to longer-term changes in the economy and workplace. The entertainment
and hospitality industries, for example, are not expected to recover until the first quarter

1

https://www.labor.ny.gov/stats/pressreleases/prlaus.shtm Accessed 10/6/20.

Professional Skills for the Workplace Micro-Credential Proposal
of 2024.2 In contrast, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that "technological
advancements are expected to support rapid employment growth in professional,
business, and scientific services sectors,”3 with general and operations managers and
sales representatives promising better than average future job growth potential.4
Furthermore, as noted above, even production-level employees are coming to need to
be able to handle traditionally managerial tasks as companies struggle to survive with
reduced staffing. As the economy transitions, new requirements and opportunities are
thus emerging that the proposed Micro-Credential will enable displaced workers and
graduating students make the most of.
C. Resources
The courses that will make up this Micro-Credential are currently offered by the School
of Professional Studies in Spring semesters as part of the program’s core curriculum.
The classes, which are being taught by full-time SPS faculty and staff members, are
projected to be well but not fully enrolled, so additional class members can be easily
accommodated. These classes are scheduled on the weekends, when the physical
facilities of the College are under-utilized. The instructors who currently teach them are
experienced professionals with directly relevant training and experience. One, Maureen
Keefe, has taught business and economics courses as a visiting assistant professor at
Old Westbury since 1976, and is currently serving as the Professional Studies
program’s chair. The other, Gary Levanti, was originally hired to teach for the program
as an adjunct instructor based on his extensive experience teaching in business
programs in neighboring institutions, and is now the Assistant Director of the SPS.
They have both already taught the courses they are scheduled to teach, have been
observed to be effective instructors, and have garnered positive student evaluations.
D. Cost, Financial Aid, Stackability, Portability, and Unique Title
Since the Micro-Credential will involve two four credit courses, the cost will be the
regular per-credit cost for these classes. Financial aid will be available for matriculated
students who take the two courses as part of their degree program, but not for nonmatriculated students. The Micro-Credential will be stackable, as both classes can
count toward the major core requirements for students in the BPS in Professional
Studies program. The courses the Micro-Credential includes are regular credit-bearing
Old Westbury classes, and therefore will typically be transferrable to other SUNY
institutions. Information about these items will be included in all marketing materials
publicizing it. The name “Professional Skills for the Workplace” is not the title of any
registered degree or certificate program.
E. Assessment
The Micro-Credential will be assessed along with the other programs of the School of
Professional Studies as part of its regular five year review process.

2
https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/coronavirus-leading-through-the-crisis/charting-the-path-tothe-next-normal/finland-sees-promising-results-after-nationwide-experiment-with-universal-basic-income
Accessed 10/6/20..
3
https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecopro_09012020.htm Accessed 10/7/20.
4
https://eab.com/insights/daily-briefing/workplace/the-top-10-emerging-jobs-for-2022/ Accessed 10/7/20

2

Professional Skills for the Workplace Micro-Credential Proposal
F. Endorsements
This proposal has been reviewed and endorsed by the SPS’ Professional Applications
Committee, which includes Nora Bassett, Lionel Chitty, and Penny Chin. Nora Bassett
is, in addition to the positions noted above, actively involved in employment initiatives in
the community. Lionel Chitty is Executive Director at the Nassau County Office of
Minority Affairs, has served as President of the Old Westbury Alumni Association, and is
directly involved with community relations and job growth. Penny Chin is Director of
Alumni Affairs and maintains direct contact with many Old Westbury Alumni and
business members in the community.
In addition, the proposal received letters of endorsement from four associates of Nora
Bassett:
•

•

•

•

Anthony James, Senior Director, New York City Transit Department of Subways
says “In my role I see hundreds of employees come through our division each year.
Getting the right training is the key to success. The Marketing for Professionals and
the Supervisory course are both good foundation courses for any employee.”
Eva Waldon, an unemployed worker who “always worked entry level jobs” and does
“not expect to return to my company,” feels “the two courses … would be good to
add to my resume.” She endorses the Supervision class because “in the past I have
had jobs where I supervised my team. My title was not supervisor but my boss
would ask me to help out. I wasn’t really taught how to handle things” so “it was
hard for me to manage other people. Communication was difficult. I never knew
exactly what was expected from me. This course” includes “skills that would be
good to have in any company.” She also endorses the Marketing course because
“the employees that can help a business change with the times and grow are the
employees that will keep their job.”
Haveluck Hall, retired Superintendent of the MTA NYC Transit Department of
Subways, comments that “Every business is looking to improve … I cannot think of
a more efficient or effective way to do so, than to improve the skillset of their
workforce. These two courses do exactly that at a minimal cost … The techniques”
students will “learn are universal,” and “without these courses, packaged the way
they are, it would be very difficult for these students to acquire these skills all at
once.
Monique Edwards, Senior Business Improvement Specialist comments that, “All
working professionals will benefit” from the program since “I have taken similar
courses and [they] impacted my work by enhancing my knowledge … which helped
[me] to provide informed contributions to my business unit.” She says the program
will provide the “key skills required to succeed” in “this challenging economic
climate.”

This proposal has also been reviewed and endorsed by the nine members of the School
of Professional Study’s Faculty Advisory Committee on November 5, 2020. The vote
was 8 in favor, 0 opposed, and 0 abstentions, with one vote submitted by email and one
member of the committee not present.
G. Additional Materials
Following is draft catalog copy for the Micro-Credential.
3

Professional Skills for the Workplace Micro-Credential
Sponsoring school: Professional Studies
The Professional Skills for the Workplace Micro-Credential conveys a basic knowledge
of how economic enterprises manage their internal operations and market the goods or
services they offer. It is designed to help students preparing to enter the workforce and
workers needing to upgrade their skills secure and succeed in positions in the emerging
economy. It consists of one course in management and one in marketing. Both focus
on the applicability of theoretical knowledge to practical situations encountered in the
workplace. Students completing the Micro-Credential’s requirements will be equipped
to contribute useful insights and operational capabilities to the enterprises that employ
them.

Requirements
Students are required to take 8 credits by completing both of the following courses at
Old Westbury with a grade of B or higher:
PS3330
PS3430

Professional Supervision
Marketing for Professionals

4 credits
4 credits

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students who complete these courses at the stipulated level will have demonstrated:
•

•

•
•
•
•

Knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of supervision: planning,
organizing, staffing, recruiting, managing, motivating, analyzing problems, and
decision making for multicultural enterprises.
Knowledge and understanding of marketing fundamentals: The 4Ps -- product, price,
place, and promotion -- and their interrelationships, marketing research, consumer
and environmental analysis, international marketing, marketing management,
responsible marketing practices and soft skills development through team
collaboration.
Awareness of marketing and supervision issues that arise within organizations and
how to utilize this knowledge to successfully implement solutions.
An ability to communicate effectively with workers, organizational leadership,
customers, peers, and community stakeholders.
An ability to critically appraise situations and synthesize theoretical knowledge and
practical experience.
Understanding of ethical practices in the workplace and the marketplace to promote
a positive work environment for an increasingly diverse workforce, and an
enterprise’s social and environmental responsibilities.

Other Considerations
Both classes can count toward the BPS in Professional Studies, whether taken by
current students or by non-matriculated students who subsequently matriculate.