Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Fall 2020 Report
Submitted by Joanne Spadaro
November 27, 2020
I. Membership
The current membership of the Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee consists of three fulltime, tenure-streamed faculty members (three of whom have taught one or more OER courses) the OER
Librarian (tenured), a full-time, tenure-streamed faculty librarian with knowledge of OER, a student
representative designated by the SGA Executive Board, the Manager of Instructional Design, and the
OER liaison for Academic Affairs. Veronika Dolar and Joanne Spadaro serve as co-chairs, and Christa
DeVirgilio is the secretary.
Members
Christa DeVirgilio
Veronika Dolar
John Estes
Svetlana Jovic
Cheyenne Sze
Ex-Officio Members
Barbara Hillery (non-voting member)
Chandra Shehigian (non-voting member)
Joanne Spadaro (voting member)

Departments
Library
Politics, Economics & Law
Chemistry & Physics
Psychology
Student Government Association
Academic Affairs
Information Technology, Instructional Designer
Library, OER Librarian

II. Activities
Meetings
In the fall 2020 semester, the Committee held two online meetings, and continue to carry out its work
online. Three members of the Committee (C. DeVirgilio, B. Hillery, J. Spadaro,) also serve as Leads for
SUNY’s OER initiatives and attend regular meetings with SUNY OER Services online.
Registered OER Courses – Summer & Fall 2020
The Committee reviews OER course syllabi and course materials to determine whether they meet
SUNY’s requirements to be designated as an OER course and identified with the OER attribute in the
course registration system. A course section is designated as OER if more than 50% of the assigned
course materials is comprised of open educational resources. This designation is on a semester-bysemester basis and is at the discretion of the instructors/departments. The following tables represents
the number of courses by departments that were registered in our system and with SUNY for summer
and fall 2020.
Summer 2020
Departments
Courses
CP
3
PE
1
PY
1
Su20 Total
5
Fall 2020
Departments
Courses
BU
1
CP
4
1|Page

Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Fall 2020 Report
HI
MA
PE
PY
SY
F20 Total

1
7
4
6
2
25

Registered OER Courses - Spring 2021
On October 7th, the Committee sent an email to faculty asking them to submit their draft SP21 syllabi for
review if they wanted to have the courses identified as OER in the registration system. As of this writing,
there are 23 courses registered for spring. Six of those courses are newly developed OER course
sections from faculty who are experienced with OER. Seventeen are repeated courses that were taught
in prior semesters.
SUNY OER Funding/Support
From 2017 to 2020, SUNY provided campus-based funds (https://oer.suny.edu/get-funding) with the
expectation that campuses would use those funds to support the adoption and sustained use of OER, as
best they saw fit. At Old Westbury, most of the funds were used to support the faculty incentive stipend
program.
SUNY OER support for 2020-21 includes:
• All content and platforms at https://oer.suny.edu remain available at no cost to SUNY faculty
and students.
• Professional development opportunities available through Lumen Circles (formerly Faculty
Guild) remain at no cost to SUNY campuses and faculty.
• OER Sustainability 2-Year Cohorts, conducted by SUNY OER Services and the rpk GROUP, for
participating campuses will continue.
• At present there is no funding for campuses (any available may be based on campus reported
OER activity in SIRIS for AY19-20. A per dollar amount would be assigned to each student
enrolled in an OER section.).
Professional Development Opportunities
The Committee kept the faculty informed about OER related conferences, webinars, workshops, and
training opportunities by email. These include: the 2020 Creative Commons Global Summit; Open
Education Conference; Stony Brook's Annual OER Colloquium; Lumen Circles Fellowships; OER as a Part
of Your Course: An Open Discussion (SUNY OER Services and OLI); Finding, Understanding, and
Integrating OER (University at Buffalo); Open Pedagogy (University at Buffalo); and SUNY OER
Services and SUNY Strong Start to Finish: OER & Corequisite English and Math Courses. On August 28,
2020, J. Spadaro provided the Open Educational Resources (OER) & Creative Commons webinar for
faculty. That webinar was offered through the SUNY Old Westbury Library and Center for Excellence in
Teaching and Learning (CETL).
III. Future Planning
The Committee is planning to have a faculty OER roundtable featuring presentations by faculty teaching
with OER. We are also planning a spring event for students in collaboration with SGA. Both events will
take place on Zoom.

2|Page