OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

MEMORANDUM

DATE:

September 19, 2018

TO:

Professor Andrew Mattson
Faculty Senate, Chair

FROM:

Dr. Calvin O. Butts, III
President

SUBJ:

SUNY OLD WESTBURY STRATEGIC PLAN IMPLEMENTATION

SUNY Old Westbury’s 2018 – 2023 Strategic Plan Implementation Plan calls for the creation of
a Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis and Review (SPAAR) Committee. The SPAAR
Committee is to be established by a SPAAR Task Force formed through collaboration between
the College’s Administration and Faculty Governance.
For full consideration by Faculty Governance, outlined below are suggestions for the timely
formation of the SPAAR Task Force to be charged with creating the SPAAR Committee under
Objective 4C, Strategy 1 in the 2018 – 2023 Strategic Plan Implementation Plan. These
suggestions have been informed by the April 27, 2018 memorandum I received from the
Strategic Planning Process Co-Chairs.
The SPAAR Task Force should consist of 12 members: 7 Administration Representatives and 5
Faculty Governance Representatives, with two Co-Chairs – one from Administration (appointed
by the President) and one from Faculty Governance (appointed by Faculty Governance).
Administration Representatives are to be selected by the President representing the
administrative functions of the college: Business & Finance, Academic Affairs, Enrollment
Services, Student Affairs, Administration, Institutional Advancement, and Public & Media

Relations. Administration Representatives will be authorized to make decisions during SPAAR
Task Force meetings.
A slate of Faculty Governance Representatives is to be selected by the faculty by means
determined by the Faculty Senate so as to appropriately provide input from the various faculty
constituencies including the Faculty Senate Chair, School of Arts and Sciences (2), School of
Business (1), and School of Education (1). Representatives selected for the slate should consist
of a mix of faculty including senior tenured faculty, junior tenured faculty, and untenured,
tenure-track faculty. Faculty Governance is to present to the President a slate of potential faculty
SPAAR Task Force representatives consisting of at least 3 choices from the School of Arts and
Sciences, at least 2 choices from the School of Business, and at least 2 choices from the School
of Education.
The suggested charge to the SPAAR Task Force (per Strategy 1 in the Implementation Plan) is as
follows:




Develop SPAAR Committee’s charge/mandate and its responsibilities.
Define SPAAR Committee’s structure and composition.
Establish criteria and process for selection/election of SPAAR Committee members and
membership term.

Your full consideration of the suggested structure, means of selection of members, and charge of
the SPAAR Task Force will be greatly appreciated. Should you agree with the above listed
suggestions, I ask that Faculty Governance respond by reply email indicating such agreement
and submit its slate of potential SPAAR Task Force faculty representatives to me by Friday,
September 28, 2018. In turn, I will select representatives from the Faculty Governance slate by
Tuesday, October 2, 2018. Those administrators and faculty representatives selected to serve on
the SPAAR Task Force will receive appointment letters on Wednesday, October 3, 2018.
Included in the letter will be a request that work begin immediately in the interest that the
SPAAR Committee be appointed and commence meetings in January 2019.
I look forward to our joint effort in the implementation of the College’s 2018 – 2023 Strategic
Plan.