STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORKCOLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, October 9, 202012:30 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes



Roster of Senators Present: ​Mike Kavic (chair), Dana Sinclair (secretary/treasurer),

Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), John Estes (AtLarge Rep to the EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At Large Rep to the EC), Bonnie Eannone (professional), Laura Anker (FY), Blidi Stemm (CE), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Eric Hagan (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Do Young Park(Math & CIS), Chelsea Shields-Mas (HP), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Llana Barber (AS), Noustos Christos(BS), Catherine Bernard (VA), Curtis Holland (SY), Roger Mayer (AC), Sarah Smith (PH), Non-Voting Members of the Senate: ​Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Barbara Hillery(AA), Raj Devasagayam (Dean, SOB)



Visitors: ​Rafat Sada, Lisa Chin, Tejas Bouklas, Alireza Ebrahimi, Jeanne Shimizu, Rachel Kalish, Milind Samant, Anthony Barbera, Frank Pizzardi, Martha Livingston, Ashok Basawapatna, Lorenz Newirth, Christos Noutsos, Yogesh More, Erik Benau, Dinorah Martinez, Patrick O’Brien, Rose Muzio, Cris Notaro, Rose Muzio, Regina Scarbrough, Fred Milan, Evan Kobolakis, Lina Gilic, Svetlana Jovic, Sarah Smith, Diana Sukhram, Manya Mascareno, Orquidea Morales, Heyewon Yi, Jillian Crocker, Sarah Smith, Patrick Cadet, Marissa Hoffmann, Fernando Nieto, Ed Bever, Diana Papademas, Betty Berbari, Sara Williamson, Malini Kumar, Jon Kleinman, Keisha Goode, Margaret Torrell, Sachi Dastidar, Blindi Stemn, Claudia Marin Andrade, Regina Scarbrough, Nicole Sieben 



Roster of Senators Absent​: Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Lisa Payton(AE), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Deepa Jani (EN), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Shijian Li (PH), Erin Toolis (PY), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Patty Harris (LE), Edislav Manetovic (LEC)



I. Call to Order



II. Approval of Minutes for Sept 11, 2020

Minutes approved as amended 



III. Chair’s Report 

Commends the faculty for a job well done so far this semester.

The Executive committee has been busy meeting with Academic Affairs and the Provost to address the budget crisis

Working on ways to revive the RABPC, a college-wide budget planning committee included in Bylaws Appendix that not been functional for many years.

There is not on-campus testing for the Coronavirus to aid facility dependent course. Students have raised concerns regarding this.

Encourages faculty to nominate themselves or someone else for the faculty showcase. Supporting each other is important!

ARPT Interfolio is on its way to being finished and faculty feedback is necessary for success.

Meeting with faculty governance committee chairs will happen soon.



IV. Provost’s Report

Made some acknowledgement of progression: Chris Notaro and Barbara Hillery for a federal grant with a face value of 1.3 million dollars. Also, Fernando Nieto and Patrick Cadet as well as their directors Patricia Rockinova and Monique Clark for the STEPand CSTEP awards  2.2 million dollars each.

Anthony Barbera on Middle States: Team Chairs visit originally scheduled for November 18th is now scheduled for December 2nd. All working group members, expect to receive an invitation.

Duncan thanks faculty for dealing with the early alerts on Navigate to promote student success.

Please get all alerts in by October 17, 2020, midterm week, if possible the 14th

Concerns with Coronavirus testing email studenthealth@oldwestbury.edu or 516-876-3250

Campaign for Panther Peer to Peer will begin October 15 until December 10th



V.UUP report

Telecommuting agreement with SUNY extended till the end of the year. Generally impacts professional members and not academic members. 

Newsletter coming out soon. Photospread of UUP masks. Send photos!

Budget report: UUP will fight back. If Millionaire tax and stock transfer tax, budget problems would be solved

Coronavirus swab test was chosen for budgetary reasons

Health and Safety task force has been working jointly with CSEA and other unions. There is a similar task force in administration and UUP would like to partner with them.

We should have gotten a base increase on September 1st of 2%, the earliest we will see this money could be January 1st. UUP is in court as we speak.

Memorandum from SUNY, pre- tenured faculty getting an extra year to complete a strong tenure file. One can opt out but everyone is entitled to the extra year.

Addressing the fact that many adjuncts are teaching classes without getting a formal offer letter from administration. UUP is working to have this fixed.



VI. Confirmation of Senate At-Large Members to the EC status 

A resolution was brought to expand the EC to accommodate 2 at large members (Rationale prepared by Parliamentarian was previously disseminated by the chair.)

Unanimous consent was given to accept the expansion of the EC, pending Bylaws revision. 



VII. Resolution in Support of Increased Communication and Transparency from IT 

Resolution sponsored by Psychology Department was introduced by the Senator from psychology. Motion was seconded to open up for discussion.

Three overarching themes;.         1. Coverage needed for off-hours; 2. more timely updates and reminders about changes to IT protocol or software updates;       3. Overall better communication from IT; service tickets taking too long to be addressed.

Looking for prioritized channel for faculty to get the help that they need.

Evan Kobulakis gave a detailed response to the issues brought on by the resolution and a constructive conversation followed.

Motion to approve Resolution by unanimous consent was seconded. No objections. Resolution passed 



VIII. Anti-racism initiative

Llana Barber spoke about initiative in response to Faculty Senate resolution passed last June, in support of BLM movement. 

Consider formalizing the work around addressing racism and anti-blackness on campus, through an ad hoc committee, in response to that June resolution.

There are also faculty initiatives that others are working on this semester, including a faculty research seminar

They believe a committee supported or authorized by the faculty senate is the best way to have the broadest reach.





IX. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements 

TLRC will have their first roundtable discussion coming up Wednesday, October 21 2:30 to 3:50. Flyer will be available soon. Our topic is discussing difficult topics navigating politics in the classroom



X. Adjournment