Old Westbury

DATE:

September 29, 2001

TO:

Naomi Rosenthal, Chair, Faculty Senate

FROM:

Edward Bever, Chair, Curriculum and Academic Planning
Committee

RE:

E

BL

2000-2001 Year End Report
The CAP committee conducted the following business during the last
academic year:

1. Review of Proposed Lines in Strategic Plan: In October, the
committee approved 17 of the lines proposed for the year under the
Strategic Plan, disapproved 4, and deferred consideration of 2 (which
were approved later in the year). The 17 lines approved were 5 for the
School of Business, 4 for Teacher Education, 2 for Humanities and

Languages, and one each for Sociology, Visual Arts, English Language
Studies, Psychology, American Studies, and the Library. The 4 lines
disapproved were 2 for the Office of Academic Affairs and one each for
Psychology and Sociology.

The two deferred but eventually approved

lines were for Performing Arts.

2. Review of Other Line Requests: In October, the committee approved
9 replacement lines and two new lines not included in the Strategic Plan.
The nine replacement lines included 2 for Teacher Education, and 1 each
for Accounting, Math, Visual Arts, Psychology, Computer and Information
Sciences, American Studies, and Sociology. The two new lines were both

for English Language Studies. Over the course of the year, the committee
also approved replacement line requests from the Mathematics and

American Studies departments.

3. Freshman Program: A major effort of CAP over the course of the year
was planning and helping to begin the implementation of a new Freshman
Year Program. Gay Wachman, in particular, played a leading role in this
activity, which included designing the overall structure of the program,
soliciting and reviewing proposals for Freshman Learning Communities,

organizing an open meeting with the Teaching for Learning Center for
faculty and administrators to discuss ideas, and participating on the hiring
committee for the director and assistant director of the program.

State University of New York College at Old Westbury » Old Westbury, New York 11568-0210

Curriculum and Academic Programs Committee
2000-2001 Year End Report

4. Majors: The committee approved 3 new majors: Biochemistry, Social
Science Adolescent Education, and an English Language Adolescent

Education. The Biochemistry and Social Science majors were approved
by the Senate, but the English proposal was withdrawn from consideration

on the instruction of the Senate Executive Committee, which found the
Education component insufficiently spelled out.
5. Minors: The committee approved two new minors: Accounting and

Math.

Both were approved by the Senate.

6. General Education: The committee approved the new General
Education program as proposed by the General Education Committee.
7. Five Year Reviews: The committee created a master schedule for Five
Year Reviews by all departments in a five year rotation. As the initial
phase of this process, it reviewed and approved the revised five year
review from American Studies which had been requested last year and
requested and reviewed Five Year Reviews from Humanities and
Languages and English Language Studies. The ELS review was
accepted contingent on minor modifications, but the Humanities and
Languages review was returned to the department for more substantial
revisions.

The committee voted against a proposal from the administration that Five
Year Reviews include an outside reviewer. It also voted to give the
Politics, Economics, and Society an extension of two years on its review

because of the current short staffing of the program.

8. Accelerating Line Requests: In order to accelerate the process of
approving and (hopefully) advertising new lines, late in the Spring

semester the committee put out a call for requests from departments to be
submitted by September 14. Four requests were received, and are

scheduled to be reviewed and prioritized at the committees first meeting in
the new academic year on September 28.
9. Honors Program: The committee voted to create a subcommittee to

consider creation of an Honors Program at the college.
subcommittee chair, and Gay Wachman
on it.

p.2

Liz Ewen is the

and Mike Epstein agreed to serve