Provost Report – Faculty Senate, April 3, 2020
1. MS Update: My thanks to the MS Working Groups as they continue their work and submit their
draft chapter documents.
2. Return to “Form”
a. Very Positive Engagement and Participation for the Blackboard and MS Teams
Workshops has been reported
b. Professional Staff and Secretaries are back online
c. MS Teams: Please be reminded that Academic Affairs has already notified you about
the ZOOM related concerns. https://www.npr.org/2020/04/03/826129520/a-must-formillions-zoom-has-a-dark-side-and-an-fbi-warning


Join us for a 100 level training on Microsoft Teams. During this session we will cover
the basics of how to utilize the application including the chat, meetings and teams
section.
Basic MS Teams Training (100 level) will be offered on
o Monday 04/06/2020 from 3PM – 4PM EST
§ Register
at: https://www.microsoft.com/store/event_registration/?eid=196750438&locid=95004

d. Faculty






Flexibility in this current Emergency Response for Instruction: Bandwidth &
Immediacy https://www.iddblog.org/videoconferencing-alternatives-how-lowbandwidth-teaching-will-save-us-all/
SUNY Remote Teaching Clinic
Student Help. https://innovate.suny.edu/covid19/students/
Attached Non-Academic Help – Summary Sheet (attached)

3. Implementation of Temporary Credit/No Credit (CR/NC) Grading Policy
a. Need graduate programs to determine whether or not the policy can apply to
graduate programs?
b. Highlights: Features of the Temporary Policy
 CR/NC is a grading option that already is in existence, which effectively is the



same as a Pass/Fail grade option that does not affect GPA.
Provision to allow students to opt-in at any point through May 24.
Faculty member will not need to approve the request but will be notified if
they choose this option in lieu of a letter grade (A-F)



Degree granting departments are in the best position to advice students
who are considering this option about the potential impacts. Therefore, we
strongly urge (recommend) that any student exercising this option, first
consult with an academic advisor and financial aid advisor to determine the
possible consequences associated with this grading choice.

c. Opportunity for the Faculty to help the Administration with the mitigation for students
 Timely grade submission: grades submitted on time will help students using the
option.
 Create Advisories for the major: there is considerable variance in the grading rules
for majors. Here are some illustrations:
o Proficiency designations (p. 39): e.g., Eng & MA, “C” or higher (some degree
programs designate higher grade thresholds)
o Variance across depts. & schools: C- through C+, some stipulate average
GPA, some include C or higher in certain courses & an overall gpa, etc.
o Licensure & certification degrees: CR/NC may not be possible
 COVID-19 contingency exceptions: Consider whether or not there is room for dept
sanctioned exceptions this semester (e.g., will majors accept at least one CR grade
to satisfy a course requirement for the degree this semester?)
 Creative GPA related mitigations: Since students can exercise the option after
receiving their grades. Is it possible to note the grade as acceptable and then allow
the student to opt as a means to avoid negative impacts on their GPA?
d. Phasing the Contingency and the Mitigated Impact
 Triage the class distribution to maximize student effort, minimize student anxiety
and optimize student outcomes through the grading/assessment feedback and the
advising.
 CR/NC is not magic – it is only one tool.
 Faculty governance may be able to help. Timing is everything. Suspending
Academic Standing impacts will likely be helpful but governance should help the
administration determine if it is a good strategy, and if so, when is a good time to
announce?

4. Additional Notes
a. Modified Agreement reached with Elsevier (smaller list of 248 journals). Toni will soon
be able to handle any other inquiries
b. ARPT matters:


Academic Affairs has asked for scheduling accommodations to be made for
faculty under review this semester to the extent that such is possible (Provost
Memo to ARPT Committee, March 27, 2020).



SUNY and UUP are in discussions for a MOU to address the impact of COVID-19
on the promotion and tenure process, which will likely include some flexibility to
stop the tenure clock. Please standby.
 Student Course Evaluations (optional for faculty files but exclusion is not to
viewed negatively)
 Peer Observations (optional no penalty for the absence of peer evaluations for
this semester)
c. Logistical Assistance for Faculty Governance from AA: Jacob Heller