TO:
FROM:
RE:
DATE:
LOCATION:
RESOLUTION #:
VOTE TALLY:

SUNY University Faculty Senate
Equity, Inclusion and Diversity Committee
Resolution: Establishment of Standing Campus Senate EID Committees
183rd Plenary, October 10-12, 2019
System Administration, Albany
183-01-02
For: 40 / Against: 5 / Abstain: 3

RATIONALE:
WHEREAS the SUNY Board of Trustees September 10, 2015 Resolution “Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion Policy” desires to make “SUNY the most inclusive higher education system in
the country,” and states within the Guiding Principles that “SUNY’s statutory mission makes
clear its responsibility to provide the broadest possible access, fully representative of all
segments of the population of New York State”; and
WHEREAS consistent with that commitment, the UFS Committee on Equity, Inclusion and
Diversity is charged to “concern itself with issues pertaining to equity, inclusiveness and
access, as they are reflected in the curriculum, student body and personnel of the State
University”; and
WHEREAS the 33 SUNY campus Senate organizations collectively serve as one of the
country’s largest faculty governing structures, and is “concerned with effective educational
policies and other professional matters within the University,” impacting the lives,
experiences, and opportunities of all diverse campus/community stakeholders and New York
State residents; and
WHEREAS in support and alignment of current SUNY structures (UFS EID Committee),
priorities (EDI Strategic Plans), values (Shared Governance), and initiatives (PRODiG, EIT)
which seek to create and maintain equitable campus environments that welcome, respect,
and support all individuals and communities who affirm human dignity:

RESOLUTION:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the UFS requests that all campus governance bodies
establish their own Equity, Inclusion and Diversity (EID) Committee if one does not currently
exist; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the UFS requests that all Campus Governance Leaders
work with campus governance bodies’ EID Committees to align committee charges with the
following UFS EID Committee charge:
1

The Committee on Equity, Inclusion and Diversity will concern itself with issues
pertaining to equity, inclusiveness and access, as reflected in the curriculum, student
body and personnel of the State University. Among the activities of this committee
will be collecting and disseminating information, organizing periodic meetings and
workshops, and providing guidance and recommendations to the Senate so that it
may act with the best intentions of all people in mind; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the UFS requests campus governance bodies consider
intentional efforts to maximize inclusive and diverse committee representation, including
cultural and social identity groups, during their respective election/appointment processes;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the UFS encourages existing campus EID
committees/task forces to consider campus senator or governance body EID representation
(Chair or appointee) for membership.

BACKGROUND:

1. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Policy. (2015, September 10). Retrieved from
https://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=804
2. Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) Accessibility Policy. (2019, June 20). Retrieved
from https://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=883
3. SUNY. (2019). Elements of Proposals for PRODI-G. Retrieved from
https://www.suny.edu/prodig/proposals/
4. SUNY. (2019). Equity, Inclusion and Diversity Committee. Retrieved from
https://system.suny.edu/facultysenate/committees/inclusion/

2