Innovative Opportunities for Expanding Enrollment
Project A: "Modality Demand Distinctions"
We should ﬁrst discuss the target populations: socio-economic/demographic, middle-to-lower
income, urbanized setting but with little or no access to public transportation, ﬁrst generation
immigrants and/or ﬁrst time to college, ethnicity. How are the populations being accessed? Via
community groups, online surveys, local libraries and organizations, community leaders, etc.
Description:
● What data exists to gather student preferences, and their reasons, for taking classes online
versus remote versus hybrid versus in-person?
● Do we have programs that are better served by online degree options, or that are better
served by in-person options?
● What are the online/technology-related supports that students are looking for to optimize
their enrollment and participation? Same for in-person?
○ What modalities and support services facilitate the academic performance of
underrepresented students?
○ How do we support the students who really need to be on campus to do well while
offering expanded access for those who do well online?
● Do our modality offerings complement other campuses in order to encourage cross
enrollment?
● Similarly do our summer and winter courses encourage enrollment from other campuses?
● Are there any correlations between course modality and student career success?
● How does course modality affect student acceptance rates into post graduate programs or first
year employment?
● How would offering more online courses differentiate us from SUNY Empire State?

Project B: "Targeting Adult Learners within our Mission
Distinctiveness"
We should ﬁrst discuss the target populations: socio-economic/demographic, middle-to-lower
income, urbanized setting but with little or no access to public transportation, ﬁrst generation
immigrant and/or ﬁrst time to college, ethnicity. How are the populations being accessed? Via
community groups, online surveys, local libraries and organizations, community leaders, etc.

Description:
● Within our program offerings are there particular ones that are likely to draw greater interest
from adult learners?
● What scheduling factors would contribute to greater interest in our program offerings by
adult learners?
● To what program packaging options, such as stackables (micro-credentials, certiﬁcates) etc.,
are adult learners attracted?
● Is there a market for continuing education (CE)?
○ In what areas? applied learning programs (media, arts, data science, etc), traditional
liberal arts/ CE life long learner classes (art, literature, philosophy, etc.), social justice and
mediation programs, skill-based training (3D programming, digital design, data
processing technologies)
○ Is there a market for continuing education packaged for completion during summers,
winters, evenings, and weekends?
● What are the workplace trends where adult learners may experience job changes or need
retraining that may present us with enrollment opportunities?
● What kinds of programs and certiﬁcations are adult learners seeking? Is there an advantage
to having day-long weekend programs for example? Or other?
● What kinds of competency or skill-based training programs are local businesses interested in
investing in? For example, ﬁnancial literacy, quantitative literacy, leadership development,
critical thinking and decision-making under uncertainty.
● To what extent are adult learners interested in STEM? How many STEM adult learners continue
to higher education versus entering the workforce? What career paths do STEM adult learners
follow after graduation?
● Are adult learners attracted to , and are they be successful in, innovative pedagogies such as
flipped classrooms etc.?

Project C: "Mission-distinctiveness within the Marketplace"
Description:
● Are we mission-distinctive within the marketplace demand?
● How can we more effectively craft our recruitment materials and outreach efforts to the
growing new diverse and immigrant populations in the immediate region around Old
Westbury?
● How do we make our mission distinctive strength marketable to attract enrollment?
● Are there new ways to engage local guidance counselors to effectively promote our mission
and strengths as an institution?
● Do potential students understand and value our distinctive mission?
● Do potential students understand and value our academic programs?
● Are there new ways to engage with local high schools to create bridge programs into our
institution? How can we create a better pipeline?

●
●
●

●
●

●
●

How do we connect the marketing of our existing programmatic strengths to our mission in a
way that is responsive to the needs of potential students?
What is the best way to communicate our programmatic strengths to potential students to
attract enrollment?
What areas of study are potential students attracted to, and do they know their areas of
study before they enroll? Does this differ based on status such as non-traditional, transfer,
ﬁrst generation, etc.?
What other areas attract students? Identity and values? Speciﬁc areas of study? Practical
experiences available? Graduation rates? Average salaries?
Are there opportunities to partner with local companies (proximal as well as expansion to the
tri-state area) to increase diversity and social justice in the workplace?
○ Training programs for the current workforce
○ Training programs for students to make them competitive
Is there a market for training students in competencies necessary for global and
international settings?
Are there ways we could expand on and showcase existing programs?
○ with neurodivergent learners (especially ADHD and autism, both growing populations to
college)?
■ What supports are needed on campus to expand and showcase our strengths in
this area?
■ Summer bridge? Dorm program?
■ Links to feeder regional HS programs?
○ We are the only SUNY in the area offering a BFA degree. The BFA degree can be
emphasized when recruiting students.
○ We have the designated UNAI (United Nations Academic Impact) connection with the
mission and charted goals of the UN.
○ Sustainability projects/curriculum?