Faculty Senate Minutes 10/20/2017

Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Senators Present:  Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Minna Barrett (Immediate Past University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), William Gillis (SAS, Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Yu Lei (MMF), Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Jillian Nissen (BS), Judy Lloyd (CP), Seojung Jung (PY), Shijian Li (PH), Amanda Shigihara (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)

Senators Absent: Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Blidi Stemm (CE), Andrew Hashey (EE), Deepa Jani (EN), Jingyi Song (H&P), Runi Mukherji (Alt. Univ. Sen.), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (ARPT), Llana Barber (LEC), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Barbara Hillery (SAS Dean)

Visitors:  Sandy Kaufman, Chris Notaro, Lorenz Neuwirth, Bonnie Eannone, Omar Estrada Torres



1) Call to order: 12:30

2) Approval of 10/6/17 meeting minutes: approved

3) Faculty Senate chair’s report: Welcome, Andrew Mattson!

Minna Barrett resigned from FUAC since someone from her previous department is moving forward.  FUAC still has a need for a Distinguished Service Professor and needs to elect a chair.

ARPT still needs two members in addition to the two that were just confirmed: Dr. Linda Camarasana & Dr. Rumei Gao.

TLRC has added Joanne Spadaro (Library).

The Advisory Committee on Campus Safety:  The FS Chair has submitted a list of 9 names of faculty who have volunteered for appointment: Sanja Cale, Linda Camarasana,  Keisha Goode, Jason Kaloudis, Martha Livingston, Chelsea Shields-Mas, Jeanne Shimizu,  Lisa Whitten, Gilda Zwerman.  

Question about status of Strategic Plans:  A final draft will be submitted to the faculty for comment shortly.  Once the comment period is over it will be submitted to the president. For further information contact Anthony Barbara or Duncan Quarless.

University Faculty Senator:  We still do not have a University Faculty Senator.  We were not represented at the fall plenary.  

The provost added it is extremely important that someone with historical sense of our college, and would be considered highly in terms of faculty service. 

Maureen commented on the importance of UFS to effective faculty representation in SUNY and state-wide matters. For example, when the SUNY Board of Trustees mandated SUNY-wide core curriculum in late 1990’s, it was UFS that fought to bring back to the faculty and to campuses the curricular control of General Education programs, rubrics and assessment.

Minna Barrett comments that there is some talk of moving from a 90 to a 60 credit model to shorten the span to graduation and it is important we push back against this.  GE would be to reduced from 7 courses to only 5.

4) President’s Report (did not attend as he is in a meeting in NYC) 

5) Provost’s Report – The Provost thanked Andrew for stepping into the chair, and all of the people on strategic planning committee. We have a new SUNY Chancellor, Kristina Johnson, formerly an engineer and business owner, as well as a new Provost, Grace Wang, evidence of restructuring in system administration. Likely both Drs. Wang and Johnson will visit the campus, and have announced Chancellor Johnson will visit all 64 campuses.  His items included

Enrollment figures, census vs. projected enrollment, included linear extrapolation of data. Maureen asked if the enrollment data distributed was for Headcount or FTE (full-time equivalence) students. Patrick replied that it was Headcount.

We had about 277 graduate students. Thanks for Kuldeep who is leaving today, and has raised the profile of the IR in his short time here. 

“Current State of Syllabi” article

“What Makes a Good Teacher?” Article

Preliminary data on enrollment boosts (or declines) this fall: Old Westbury #1, 10% enrollment growth this fall. CC enrollment has been dropping especially in Nassau.  It appears the Excelsior may be the largest impact on this. 

Student service center: up and coming

Need more trained advisors and peer tutors to help with freshman and sophomore retention, RAM grant can be helpful in this regard, comparison with leader Farmingdale (in this field)

Will use EAB software using algorithms from this data on each student will write updates at least every week. Purpose: determine students at risk and send early warning notices.  This is crucial for retention and completion.

Discussion with Dean Hillery surrounding withdrawals’ necessity and timing, or reducing their overall rate—can’t force someone (student) to drop a course

Idea from Provost of “student success coordinator”—a potential position.

All departments should get a list of their new majors and hold at least one event per semester for their major—funds to be made available.

Margaret Torrell (English) to establish a committee to look at appropriate minimum enrollment for classes to run—New Paltz has minimum of 15, Fredonia has a minimum of 12, etc. Reasons being equity among faculty teaching loads and economic sustainability.

Should we move to a differential salary structure for adjuncts (current min. is $3600) based on degree and rank—Shalei Simms will look into it and assemble a committee.

There is also an idea about providing office and student-meeting space for adjuncts.  The Provost will work towards making this possible. 

Some majors (Psych., Soc., etc.) have very large enrollments—should we consider caps on major enrollment or admissions criteria?

Discussion about structural deficit, what it means and how it relates to recent enrollment bump and the Excelsior Scholarship.

6) Old Business – Update on Applied Learning (Minna Barrett)

Faculty oversight of approved applied learning courses.  All tagged credit-bearing courses are required to meet and fulfill SUNY-wide approved AL criteria.

Met with SUNY-wide committee and they had some concerns re applied learning being a “very important mechanism” for delivering an experience that requires an advocacy committee—advocate for the “structure and leadership that is required”. We need to think this through as a group. 

In addition, there is some money available from a $5 million “pot” for applied learning, but not sure what that will mean since there is a new provost in that SUNY Office.  Hopefully, she will be aligned with former Provost with regard to support for AL support on campuses.  LUMINA is dedicated to advancing the liberal arts and applied learning.  Our campus has been acknowledged for its potential leadership with regard to AL development and innovation.  LUMINA is offering five SUNY campuses three year seed grants to assist awarded campuses with data collection and development of instructional guidance for AL design. 

Those with interest in developing AL as new initiatives should all be thinking about the design of an applied learning innovation.

The First Year program will be working on integrating our applied learning components into LEAP and CL.

7) New Business

CAP Annual Report (Frank Sanacory).

Parliamentarian interrupted with a procedural matter. The Senate needs to vote now on receiving the annual reports that are appended to the agenda (CAP and FRRC) before the CAP report is presented. There is a motion from the floor to accept the annual reports of FRRC and CAP. Motion is seconded. The motion passes without dissent. 



 (Frank): CAP discovered last year that there were many courses in the Catalog but had not run in many years, gist of this process being that there is no electronic catalog.

CAP went through and listed all courses in the Catalog and ran the query in the system; Frank then discusses and displays list of various “on the books” courses that have nonetheless not run in much time passed.

Complete Excel file of this list will be distributed to the faculty, upon which further discussion and action can be taken (if needed).

Dean Hillery: utility of “topics” courses as placeholders and entryways to run practically any course a department wishes; also a way of trying out new courses before going through entire approval process.

Streamlining and shortening of 5-year reviews for departments: generally they’re far too long and uneven.  

Question from M. Dolan about procedural aspects of the report. In view of substantive matter discussed by CAP regarding “rewriting the Five-year review process”, the Parliamentarian asked the Chair of CAP to please provide to the Senate an addendum to the committee’s annual report. Consistent with past practice, the annual report would include appropriate narrative to describe the committee’s discussions and deliberations on substantive matters, in this case, any proposed changes to Five-Year review process.   

FRRC Annual Report (Ali Ebrahimi)

Workshop held last semester, very successful

Run-through of the various student grievance cases that were handled last year by subcommittees of the committee

Idea about inviting a scholarly speaker to discuss grievance processes and handling and so forth. Maybe we can also standardize all syllabi. Perhaps we can rewrite or reconsider the ARPT manual. Previous instantiation of the committee deserves high marks for their willingness to contribute in these various eras

Possible issue about 48-hour deadline for submission of final grades at the end of the semester. 

Parking issue and ideas for the future: shall we form a committee to examine the issue and inform options? Clearly it is an issue with many ramifications and intertwinements. 

From the floor, the importance of resolving parking issues by assessing all of the needs for sighting any new spaces and that includes input about rational growth of student numbers.

The FRRC Chair stated that gathering all of the data about what really happened and the availability of all current spaces would be important for any committee decisions.

8) Announcements

Cristina Notaro: invitation to transfer student reception on November 1st from 1:30-3:30. Everyone welcome!

Law School Day Fair coming to the college soon

President has invited FS executive board to meet.  FS Chair Andrew Mattsen sent out a request to entire faculty for ideas for an agenda.

Laura Anker: DACA support fund has been used up for necessary student help services, will the President match those funds? In any case, need now to replenish. Two scholarships given out to deserving students. Need more donations to help our DACA students on campus who desperately need our help.

Parking committee will be formed and discussed at next FRRC meeting November 3rd, 11 am. Please come or suggest ideas to Ali Ebrahimi. 

Meeting adjourned at 2: 10 pm