University Faculty Senate: 184th Plenary Session – Winter 2020
University at Albany
Albany, NY
Major Topics the Plenary Session
The 2020-2021 Budget (The Main Event!)
•
•

•
•

•

This was the biggest topic of the entire plenary, addressed by SUNY Chancellor Johnson,
UFS President Kay, and SUNY CFO McLoughlin in their reports to the Senate.
Governor Cuomo and the state legislature are dealing with a $6 billion deficit (largely due to
hospital costs such as Medicaid, which hits SUNY hospitals hard because they are public
hospitals.). This deficit is the largest the Governor has had to contend with, and the
expectation is he will be tougher this year.
SUNY needs $700 million this year, and will need the same amount next year, with SUNY’s
“biggest threat” being hospital costs, such as Medicaid (CFO McLoughlin).
SUNY’s budget request priorities for AY2020-2021 include:
o $550M for critical maintenance – at a minimum, as this was the level of funding last
year; However, SUNY is asking for additional funds to address aging buildings that
need renovating/upfitting (e.g. renovation of 3,000 classrooms and 3,000 lab spaces).
The average age of our buildings is 60 years.
o Chancellor Johnson would like to negotiate a $2:$1 SUNY:state matching ratio for
funding for new buildings (the state pays $1 for every $2 paid by SUNY).
o $100M for hospital capital funds;
o Coverage of the second year of retroactive salary costs;
o Support for programs such as Provost Investment Funds (PIFs) and EOP;
Note: that in this year’s State of the State address, Governor Cuomo stated he would
like to increase EOP funding.); AND,
o Base support to cover (“close”) the TAP gap.
The TAP Gap refers to the difference between what students get from NY
state’s Tuition Assistance Program (including full TAP award) and the college’s
costs to educate students (which includes tuition increases not covered by TAP).
In AY2018-2019, the maximum TAP award was $5,165 per student, which was
75% of SUNY’s tuition for the same year, $6,870. That leaves a gap $1,705 per
student (UUP). Currently, the total TAP gap = $84M a year (Chancellor
Johnson). SUNY is asking for at least $80M (McLoughlin).
The TAP gap is a serious drain of campuses’ resources, as campuses typically
must cover this cost themselves. If SUNY covers the TAP gap, campus funds
would then be available for other, higher priorities, including new faculty
salaries.
SEE UUP’s Fast Facts re: TAP Gap Sheet.
NOTE: Governor Cuomo also indicated in his State of the State address that he would like to
raise the Excelsior Scholarship cap to $150,000 per student. (And just in case you were
wondering: Yes, Virginia. There is an Excelsior gap, too!) The current Excelsior gap is ap.
$10M (CFO McLoughlin.) SUNY is asking for 10 million to cover the Excelsior gap.
1

•

Two recommendations intended to reduce SUNY’s operating costs, promote financial
sustainability, make available funding for higher priority areas, and – according to
Chancellor Johnson – strengthen SUNY’s position in budget negotiations with the Governor
and NYS Legislature – were presented and promoted at the plenary by both Chancellor
Johnson and CFO McLoughlin.
o “Managed print”, which would involve negotiating a contract for system-wide costs;
SUNY spends over $50M and prints over one billion pages system-wide.
Savings are estimated to be at least $10M, with the potential to increase up to
$50M a year (and maybe a few trees, too).
o Public-private partnerships, which would entail some type of contingent relationship
between a campus/campuses and other entity such that the outside entity absorbs
some of the costs in exchange for some benefit. Public-public (nonprofit-nonprofit)
arrangements are also possible.
One example: New Medical School Building at University at Buffalo. Private
companies paid the down payment on a huge mortgage the school procured; in
exchange, the various labs, operating facilities, etc. are corporately sponsored,
with facilities, labs, etc. bearing the names of those corporations (akin to
sports arenas).
OR, Some other arrangement between a SUNY institution and a private
organization, for example, to provide funds for utilities or other operating
costs that would be matched by the state, and the organization could have
access to that SUNY campus’ services/facilities.

NOTE: The only resolution of this plenary session is the resolution that follows, requesting full
funding of SUNY and CUNY.
UFS Resolution in Support of SUNY- and CUNY-Friendly 2020-2021 Budget
This resolution asks the Governor and NYS Legislature to increase the share of SUNY and
CUNY operating budget that is covered by public funding instead of student tuition, fully fund
SUNY and CUNY critical maintenance needs and capital projects, and establish a SUNY
endowment. It also asks that SUNY UFS expand its coordination with governance bodies and
union chapters across SUNY and CUNY in budget advocacy.
• For: 36 / Against: 0 / Abstain: 0
NOTE: The Resolution passed by our (OW) faculty senate regarding changing
“freshman/freshmen” to “first-year student(s)” was sent by President Kay to the UFS Student
Life Committee, who will review it and amend it if needed, and then present to the UFS body at
the Spring Plenary for consideration and a vote.
Revisions of UFS Bylaws and Standing Rules (UFS Governance Committee)
•

Considerable time was spent on this final phase of the bylaws revisions, which began a year
and one-half ago. The Governance Committee and Bylaws Task Group have been working
on revisions of the Bylaws and Standing Rules, with our input at various points. At the Fall
2019 plenary, proposed revisions were introduced, with some discussion. Feedback was
solicited during the interim, with final proposed revisions presented and discussed at the
Winter 2020 session. Some amendments (relatively minor for the most part) to the proposed
2

•

changes were discussed and voted on, followed by votes for each of the finally approved
changes.
A final vote on the entire set of proposed changes was then taken, with the revised Bylaws
and Standing Rules passing: 37 for, 3 against, and 1 abstention (out of 45 Senators and
Officers eligible to vote). Only a two-thirds vote is required for passage; the final vote was
82% approval. The new Bylaws and Standing Rules will be published on the website.

Enrollment Concerns (Provost Laursen)
•

•

Like other institutions of higher education nationally, SUNY is experiencing enrollment
decreases, due to changing demographics, including decreasing numbers of traditional age
college students (18-24 yrs). However, this trend is impacting the various SUNY sectors
differently.
o The doctoral campuses have maintained steady enrollments.
o The comprehensive colleges have experienced varying levels of decreases, with
upstate campuses experiencing greater reductions.
o Graduate student enrollments are up across the system (by 2.5%), as are numbers of
full- and part-time online enrollments.
Enrollment strategies presented, to both offset trending declines and grow enrollment
generally included:
o Initiatives such as Re-Enroll to Complete and other SUNY Achieve programs to help
campuses reduce their enrollment declines; AND,
o SUNY Online Initiative development, to capture nontraditional age (i.e. older)
students, out-of-state and international students, and NYS students who are enrolled
in online degree programs in other states (ap. 40,000).

PRODiG Update (Provost Laursen)
•
•

74 URM and/or Women in STEM faculty have been hired across 20 campuses. Two were
Old Westbury hires. SUNY’s goal was 80 PRODiG hires for this first year of the program.
Early findings indicate most, but not all, of the participating campuses have increased their
percentage of URM new faculty hires.

SUNY Online Update (Provost Laursen)
•
•

•

Nine online degree programs across seven campuses participated in Fall 2019, the first
semester of this initiative. Nine more programs are being offered this Spring 2020 across 8
campuses.
Programs and degrees being offered include:
o AS degrees in Accounting, Cybersecurity, Digital Security, Math, and Psychology;
o BS degrees in Accounting, Business, Healthcare Management, Informatics, and
Psychology;
o MBA in Healthcare Management and MS degree in Information Science.
The mean ages for Fall 2019 students in the three award levels were:
o 27.6 years for Associates degree programs;
o 32 years for Bachelors degree programs; AND,
3

•

o 41.2 years for graduate programs.
The online advertising for SUNY online initiative programs is also capturing students
interested in the more traditional programs, and students interested in online courses but not
necessarily an entire online degree program (Open SUNY). For example, the week prior to the
plenary session, 2000 applicants came through the SUNY Online advertising portal, ap. 800 of
whom were interested in Open SUNY and the rest interested in more traditional programs.

Elsevier Update (Mark McBride)
•
•

•
•

The contract with Elsevier has been extended for another 3 months (through March 2020), as
there was no resolution of concerns and negotiation of a new, long-term contract by
12/31/19, the end of the previous contract.
Elsevier is playing hardball, with SUNY and also the UC system, with no progress with
either higher education system. According to McBride, Elsevier has been taking a “take it or
leave it” position. However, there is a new person in charge of negotiations who may be
more facilitative of the negotiation process.
Representatives of the University Centers are now involved in the negotiation process.
Doctoral colleges, then the comprehensive colleges will also join in the negotiation process at
a later time.
However, access to Elsevier titles are still available. Also, papers published with federal
funding are made available automatically. UC system has discovered that many of the
materials they are interested in are free.

Art Force 5 (www.artforce5.com)
•

•
•
•

•
•

This is a program started in 2016 at Alfred University’s School of Art and Design by Dan
Napolitano (an Alfred U. graduate, now Asst. Dean at Alfred University), where students
use art to address issues around social justice, as well as issues of importance to particular
communities.
Currently, students from six SUNY campuses work in collaboration, addressing issues on
their campuses and also at other locations. Students involved in the program use art to
help communities address difficult issues while promoting ‘creativity over conflict’ ”.
Art Force 5’s mission: “The Art Force 5 inspires creativity over conflict through nonviolence workshops and impactful community based art.” The program’s values are to
“promote equality, inspire creativity, build community, teach history and sow empathy.”
At the Winter 2020 plenary, students put on an exhibit, and also provided senate
members with the opportunity to engage in another project, completing a mosaic of
Coretta King – both in acknowledgement/celebration of the upcoming 100th anniversary
of the passage of the 19th amendment.
Art Force 5 also travels to local communities and campuses to address any specific
issues, and is open to expanding collaboration with additional campuses.
Check out the website: www.artforce5.com!

4

Announcements & Reminders
•

Deadline: For receipt by SUNY Administration of the Chancellor’s Award for Excellence
in the following areas is Tuesday, February 18, 2020:
o Faculty Service
o Librarianship
o Professional Service
o Scholarship and Creative Activities
o Teaching for Academic Year 2019-2020

•

“Good News”: Chancellor Johnson always includes “good news” – where she reports of
special events, accomplishments, awards, ceremonies, new programs or opportunities, etc. at
different campuses. She often travels on such occasions to the specific campuses (no doubt
an invitation helps), and always has her picture taken with those involved, and then includes
them in her reports.
We should keep this in mind and inform her of our good news, and invite her to special
events. Examples for this year include:
o SUNY Research Day being held at Old Westbury this year. She probably already
knows about this but a special invite wouldn’t hurt. (She would love this one!)
o Our student honor society induction ceremonies. We have a lot of these, including
transfer students; OSSD-registered students; and various departments, including
English, sociology, psychology (undergraduate and graduate), and neuropsychology
minors.
Send me the date of an induction ceremony in your department along with the
name of the honor society, with a short paragraph about the society or the
significance of Old Westbury’s chapter. I can easily inform her about all of
them.

Respectfully submitted,
Laurie Morris
UFS Senator

5