OLD WESTBURY
THE

STATE

cOLLEGE

UNIVERSITY

OFFICE

OF

OF

THE

Date:

April 5, 2002

To:

Faculty Members, College at Old West

From:

Dr. Calvin O. Butts, III, President

Re:

Budget & Planning Committee

A

NEW

YOR

PRESIDENT

(

ses

Parameters of the Budget and Planning Committee were established in September 2001.

This represented a joint effort of the Faculty Senate Executive Committee along with

representatives from my administration.

A copy is attached for your review.

This

memorandum further clarifies the evolving role of the Budget and Planning Committee in
our College’s governance.

The BPC should be a committee that is advisory and supportive in nature, with its
primary purpose being to provide recommendations on budget matters to the President

and administrators.

The BPC should adopt a strategic, institutional-wide perspective

when deliberating matters pertaining to the College's budget. By doing so, it will become

proactive and perform budget reviews that focus on what is needed to attain the mid and
long-term goals of the College. In line with this perspective, the BPC must consider the

College as a whole and place the better interests of the College ahead of the

relative

importance of a particular program, activity or function to any one division or
department. In this capacity, the BPC can help by:

1.
Serving as an oversight committee. The BPC can periodically review divisional
and departmental operating budgets and the College's capital plan as part of an ongoing
planning and budget process. Responsible administrators, staff and faculty can appear
before the BPC and dialogue about the purposes and costs of the major programs and

activities included in their budgets. The BPC reviews can be designed to determine: (1)

the overall reasonableness of initiatives and budgets, and (2) how well they relate to the
College's mission, vision and guiding principles. As an outcome of such reviews, the
BPC can provide recommendations to the President and administrators. Feedback on the
BPC recommendations is expected from such officials either in writing or during a
subsequent meeting;
2.

Developing flexible College budgets.

For contingency planning purposes, the

BPC can develop several College budgets based on different levels of funding after
reviewing all divisional budgets and the College's overall budget. From these reviews the
BPC can provide recommendations to the President as to which functions, programs and
activities are to be included at specified levels of funding. Such recommendations should
be prioritized based on a well-defined and accepted framework. Along with these

P.O. Box 210

Old Westbury, NY 11568-0210

www.oldwestbury.edu

Tel: 516.876.3160

Fax: 516.876.3347

email: buttsc@oldwestbury.edu

To:

Faculty Members — April 5, 2002 — Page 2

recommendations, the BPC should provide the President qualitative and quantitative
impact statements that clearly identify those significant items and costs excluded from the
College budget at the various levels of funding;
3.

Preparing a set of budget principles.

Principles will be very helpful when

undertaking tasks such as developing flexible budgets and in achieving targeted

reductions in a logical, consistent manner that will ensure all stakeholders' views are

considered. Once the set of principles has been prepared, it should be sent to the
President for consideration and approval with the recommendation that it become an
integral part of the College's overall system of internal controls;

4.

Establishing a budget calendar of events. Such calendar should coincide with

5.

Performing analyses for the budget office and other departments. The BPC

SUNY's budget requests and deadlines and also consider the College's calendar of events.
BPC and other group meetings can then be scheduled to timely address appropriate
items and responsible College personnel can receive advance notification if they are
expected to discuss items in their budgets;

work groups can assist others by performing budget and benchmarking analyses on both
the operating (for the division, department or office) and capital plan budgets as needed.

Some of the tasks to be performed may include: (1) determining the College's actual cost
of providing an undergraduate education; (2) developing a simple but effective campus
system of recharges based on demand; (3) preparing detailed, comprehensive analyses
needed to justify future increases in College fees; (4) brainstorming and assisting in the

development of new revenue streams for the College; and, (5) estimating the cost of
projects in the capital plan.

Under the structure described above, the BPC and its work groups can have meaningful
input on budget matters and play a greater role in ensuring that future major budget

expenditures are closely linked to the values and vision of the College. The interaction

among administrators, staff and faculty, along with a better understanding of the BPC’s

role in the planning and budgeting process, should produce a form of shared governance
acceptable to all College constituents.
lic

SUNY College at Old Westbury
College-wide Budget and Planning Committee (BPC)

Objectives:
1.

To make recommendations to the President on all major matters pertaining

2:

To disseminate information across the campus related to budgeting,
planning and campus development, as well as to solicit input and feedback
from campus constituencies.

to budgetary policy, campus development and planning.

Membership:

The Budget and Planning Committee shall consist of:
6 faculty members chosen by the President on the Faculty Senate’s
recommendation.

The Chair of the Faculty Senate, ex officio;

9 members of the administration chosen by the President;
1 student member appointed by the Student Government Association (SGA).
The President shall appoint the Chair of the Committee. The Committee shall
recommend a Vice Chair to the President from among the faculty members if the
chair is an administrator or from among the administrative members if the chair is
faculty.
Charge:
The Committee shall have the following responsibilities:

L.

To recommend priorities for the allocation of college-wide resources
(within the framework of the New York State Budget Allocation Process
for SUNY).

2:

To review and evaluate campus development planning and make
recommendations on proper implementation.

8.

To undertake specific “ad hoc” assignments from the President through
designated sub-committees (enlisting additional non-committee members
as appropriate).

Procedures:

The Budget and Planning Committee shall meet regularly and may call
emergency meetings with the President’s approval when necessary. It may invite
appropriate College personnel to attend its meetings to assist it in the proper
completion of its responsibilities.
To this end, the Committee shall be provided with the appropriate fiscal

information needed to develop recommendations.

The Chair of the Committee shall set the agenda for all meetings, in consultation

with the President, and shall assume responsibility for disseminating information

to the College community as well as to solicit appropriate input and feedback.

The Chair or the Vice Chair of the Committee shall report regularly to the Faculty
Senate.

/ic

9/7/01