SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FULL FACULTY MEETING
Friday, February 6, 2004
12:30 - 1:50 pm

Report of the Faculty Senate Chair, Kate Velsor:
Several things to report from the Fall semester at Old Westbury:
1. The opening of the student union;
2. A first for the campus: the meeting with Peter D. Salins, Provost and Vice Chancellor for
Academic Affairs, and chief academic officer of the State University of New York syste;
3. There was an asbestos scare over January;

4. A committee was formed for the Office of Students with Special Disabilities;

5. Statewide assessment on General Education has been discussed at statewide meeting and we will
have a report from Hedva Lewittes.
6. Chair thanks faculty for all the support and asks for nominations for an Assistant Chair.
8. Hedva Lewittes nominates Caroline Sawyer to be new Assistant Chair, and the nomination was

seconded. Vote: 20 unanimous votes for the nominee.

Report of President Calvin Butts:
1. Dr. Butts welcomed everyone this semester.
/
2. Enrollment is closer to target but not yet at our goal — 146 who were cancelled are now reenrolling.
3. The census date is Wed, Feb 11 for fulltime and of the goal of 2618 we now have 2,518.

Timely payments help the campus budget, so the administration would appreciate faculty
members’ requesting the students to register and pay immediately.
4. Please do not hold next year’s enrollment at this year’s level. It will work negatively if we do not
continue increasing the enrollment of the college, so we are projecting the increases.
5. Chancellor is stating a request to reinstate the money lost last year and to support EOP funding that
was cut last year.

6. Budget situation is not good but we are able to continue a positive relationship with the Board of
Trustees and with the help of the Budget Planning Committee and others, we think it will
improve.
7. $25 million are necessary for our operating needs, but we are operating at $22.6 million. We are
constantly seeking ways to fill the gap with fund-raising.
8. New Academic Vice President of Student Affairs Dr. Janice Haynie, was hired. The Search
Committee brought back four names. Three were invited and turned down our offer for
reasons of: 1) cost of living, 2) unavailability of affordable housing; 3) spouses not ready to
move 4) cannot get here in a timely fashion.
Did not invite the 4", and met with the Search Committee who agreed to disband and granted
a waiver.

Of the names remaining, the President selected Dr. Hayaine, and asked to meet

with the Search Committee again. About 1/3 of the Committee were able to meet with her.
Based on her qualifications, President Butts made the decision to hire her. Given the need for
strong leadership and efforts for retention, we needed someone ASAP, thus the decision was

9.
10.
11.
12.
No

made by the President of the College. She will begin February 17 with more than 30 years
experience in higher education at several universities.
The President also appointed Wayne Edwards as Dean of Students — important to have someone
in these positions SOON. He, too, has been highly recommended and the students gravitate
naturally to him. Hw believes the team will be a “dynamic duo” for student affairs.
Good meetings held regarding the Clark stables and academic programs related to those
programs. A cleanup will begin on February 17".
At a meeting today with the daycare center, a topic is its expansion.
Continually facing challenge of getting good faculty by looking at developing faculty housing — a
very preliminary stage of discussion.
questions or discussion.

Report from Academic Vice President Dr. Cox
1. Thanks the faculty and support staff for efforts this past semester.
2. Without the administrative work of faculty members on committees, we could not carry out the
level of organization we have.

3. With the leadership of Dr. Butts, we are having discussions regarding the stables, the Suffolk

1

Community College (SCC) about its veterinarian program and Cornell University will be
contacted about its Veterinarian.
4. We are working hard for excellence in teaching.
Enrollment strategy — numerous efforts to assure growth, including:
a 3+3 years program with Hofstra Law School; and a 2+2+1 for the Business School and the
Science program. We are also considering a possible 2+2+1 pre-med — veterinary course with
SCC; and a 2+2 with Nassau Community College (NCC) that would include some students’
living in the old dorms, which requires issues of food supplies and other details for
satisfactory agreements.
6. Dr. Giovana with North Shore Community Hospital and Jim Llana met with officials on an
agreement to teach several classes of Spanish language now, and possibly Russian language
in the future, with figures around $90-99,000 for estimated value. We began by requesting
internships for three Old Westbury students, and we are now about ready to sign an
agreement. This new opportunity would also open up the hospital employees to our publicity
to get a new range of students from a base of more than 500 hospital workers.
7. Schedule for next year — asked about having 8 am classes and some more late classes. We have
some who can go only in the morning, some only in the evening, and now we are beginning to
discuss the weekend as a potential time for classes. We must do something to get more of the
market.
8. NCATE: the “charged atmosphere” is here again, and offers a grand opportunity for accreditation
to show us as the best public education institution on Long Island. This will require more
time and effort by faculty members.
9. State funding — we don’t have enough, but maybe this problem will facilitate our entrepreneurship
to income from work in the community and find new sources of funding and grants. The new
Vice President for Student affairs should help in these efforts.
Discussion:
C. Sawyer raised a problem of late classes: No support staff is on campus those hours. Also, on the
issue of adjuncts — it is important for student retention to have the great majority of courses
taught by fulltime faculty.

Report from the Old Westbury Foundation by Rich Brown:
1. So far, the Foundation has raised $221,699 of the goal of $500,000.

We think we are about to get

some gifts to help meet the ambitious goal. $25,000 has been set aside for faculty research
grants, $25,000 for Presidential scholars program, and $25,000 for other cultural exchange
and student funding.
2. Donors want to give to a specific project, but not to overcome the budget crisis. For example,

enrollment services has received $15,000 to help in recruitment efforts — brochure about to

Nn

Ww

come out for employee giving to the foundation.
We got $1750, 100% for student scholarships, and will have an annual reception in September.
4. The Clark Stables restoration will attract people to one of the few historic areas in Nassau County.
The stables are a means to an end because they attract people interested in land preservation,
horses and buildings, and thus are a source for public fund-raising.
. Vitra plan gave another $25,000 and also provided student internships.
6. April 28 luncheon — expect $10-20,000 and other potential corporate donors, and there is a second
Presidential reception coming up in March.
7. Bring corporate representatives to address classes. Three new people have been added to the Board
of Directors, including one in insurance, and a car dealer.

6. Jim Llana is also working on funding for Humanities and Languages.
Report from SUNY assessment meeting by Hedva Lewittes:
1. Faculties or statewide at every campus rejected the statewide assessment and brought that to the
SUNY-wide Senate so that the initiative for standardized assessment was unanimously
defeated. Statewide Faculty Senate Executive Committee came up with a 4-point
compromise proposal, but most campuses did not approve (especially against an externallynormed test).

2. The Old Westbury Faculty Senate voted unanimously to support the same resolution, using the
same wording as the Binghamton University Faculty Senate resolution:
The Old Westbury Faculty Senate reaffirms its commitment to support
campus-based assessment as it is currently undertaken at Old Westbury and
sees no need for an expansion of University-wide assessment.
3. We don’t know what the next step will be.
Questions and clarification.

We do need two outside evaluators, who can be paid $500, and they must come to campus and meet
with faculty and with academic affairs. This step is partly CAP and partly academic
assessment’s responsibilities. History suggests we seek evaluators from SUNY or CUNY to
avoid travel costs — and they are more likely to understand our college and programs.
Gen-Ed assessment review — issue of implementation. Once assessment of majors is done, what do
we do? Most recommendations made are usually very helpful, e.g., screening tests for
students in the Spanish classes.
Outside evaluators are required by SUNY for the 5-year assessment, and the Committee for Academic
Policy also gets the report from the assessment data and the outside evaluator’s report.
Gen-Ed proposal finally approved and called “Excellent.”
Once the 3-yr Gen-Ed and the 5-yr assessment of majors are done, the work should be easier than the
current overload.

Report from UUP by Candelario Franco:
1. Home district advocacy — UUP thanks faculty and staff who participated in the Albany action.
Visiting legislators got across the message that SUNY wants support, and Old Westbury also
made its needs known. Legislative luncheon and large # of legislators attended; the budget of
SUNY is not adequate.
2. The delegate assembly rally of 300 marched in Albany and rallied for the budget last Friday.
These efforts are helping. The budget now has a moderate increase — net increase of 7%
overall for SUNY.
3. State is still looking at a $4-6 billion deficit, but managed to pay certain costs from other accounts.
4. Meetings scheduled for next week and we may have a new agreement by the Spring. The
Republican National Convention is coming to New York in the summer and they would not
want to have mass picket lines.
;
5. Overall, there is a feeling that things are getting better. For information: www.uuup.info.org.

No questions or discussion.

,

New business
President Butts wants to thank Trustee Harvey Waxman and Professor Jim Llana for helping facilitate
the agreement with North Shore Community Hospital.
Meeting adjourned at 1:50pm.