STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FULL FACULTY MEETING
Friday, May 11, 2018
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location S-100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP
Inst. Adv.), Barbara Hillery (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Nancy Brown (Dean SOE)
Non-Faculty Senators Present: Jon Kleinman, Ana Martinez, Alonzo McCollum
Faculty Present: Minna Barrett, Lee Blackstone, Carolina Bustamante, Jillian Crocker, Jennie
D’Ambroise, Christa DeVirgilio, Veronika Dolar, Bright Emenike, Joseph Foy, Curt Friehs, Bill Gillis,
Jacob Heller, Peter Ikeler, Deepa Jani, Jason Kaloudis, Maureen Keefe, Yu Lei, Ashlee Lien, Martha
Livingston, Anissa Lynch, Joseph Manfredi, Manya Mascareno, Andrew Mattson, Diana Papademas,
DoYoung Park, Lillian Park, Dana Prewitt, Frank Sanacory, Jeanne Shimizu, Nicole Sieben, Shalei
Simms, Sarah Smith, Joanne Spadaro, Kathleen Velsor, Dana Tomlin, Nick Werner, Lori Zaikowski,
Ali Ebrahimi, Fernando Guerrero, Amanda Shigihara, Costas Hadjicharalambous
Visitors: Anthony Barbera, Benedette Adewale, Yumi Nicholson, Ed Bever, Omar Estrada Torres,
Linda Camarasana
DRAFT MINUTES
I.

Call to Order at 12:38 p.m.

II.

Approval of Minutes of Feb 16 2018
•
•
•
•

III.

For full faculty meetings do not identify senators present, only faculty present.
First page says 2017 should be 2018.
Wayne Edwards title should be updated to VP Inst. Adv.
Jill Crocker was present

FS Chair’s Report
1. Faculty Senate Chair: Nominations will close and the election will be held on Friday May
18 at the final Senate Meeting of the semester. There are currently no nominations.
2. SUNY Chancellor Kristina Johnson Meeting with Faculty Governance: The chancellor met
with the Faculty Senate Executive Committee on Thursday, May 10, in the Office of the
President for 20 minutes. The meeting was brief but constructive. The Chancellor asked
about the “challenges” we face and asked how SUNY can help meet these challenges. The
EC response touched on sustainability, transparency, resources, ratio of full-time faculty,
1

class size, student faculty ratio, transportation, student life, and a number of other topics.
The Chancellor asked about completion rates and time to graduation. The EC responded
with a discussion of our student population and the factors that explain our improving
completion and time to graduation data.
3. Represent your School! Creation of SPAAR Task Force: On April 27, the co-chairs of the
Strategic Planning Process (Barbera, Quarless, Mattson,) sent a memorandum,
“Suggestions for Establishing the Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis and Review
(Spaar) Task Force” to both the office of the President and the Faculty Senate Executive
Committee. Faculty governance will now work with the Office of the President to create
and charge the SPAAR Task Force, which will create and charge the Strategic Planning,
Assessment, Analysis, & Review Committee (SPAAR), which will coordinate and monitor
the implementation of the Strategic Plan. Each school will require at least one
representative on the SPAAR Task Force.
o Action Item: Deans, Chairs, Faculty, please identify at least one faculty member to
represent your school (SOB, SOE, SAS) on this task force.
4. Micro Credential Working Group: In response to the request for guidance from CAP, the
EC is creating of a working group to draft a proposal to submit to CAP and the EC for
approval by the Senate. The working group could consist of one representative each from
the following: SOB, SOE, SAS, SPS, TLRC, CAP, Registrar, Academic Affairs, SGA.
o Action Item: Are you willing to serve on this working group? Contact the FS Chair if
you are interested.
5. Faculty Compensation Working Group: How shall we improve the transparency and
accountability of the process for assessing faculty compensation including compression,
inversion, gender, and other issues relating to the salary equity?
o Action Item: To join the EC working group on Salary Inequity contact the Faculty
Senate Chair.
IV.

President’s Report
•

V.

Dr. Butts is not able to be here today.
Provost’s Report

• The Provost asks the faculty to approve the list of graduates. This is an annual event. The
Provost reads aloud the resolution. The list of candidates is approved by unanimous vote.
There are no oppositions and no abstentions.
• Veronika Dolar announces that SUNY Old Westbury was among 10 candidates in the Up To Us
competition and we won. Lots of students signed the petition to not put debt and burden on
the younger generation. We got $10,000 for future events engaging students. Students were
in D.C. at the fiscal summit and they met with Congress. Nancy Pelosi talked and many
important people mingled with our students. We will prepare a video showing them accepting
the award. Among 103 colleges we won.
• Chancellor Johnson visited yesterday morning. She visited NSB, the labs, the library, math
tutoring and NAB. She is supportive of our want for a new science building. Her Chief of Staff
Terry Miller said this visit was one of the best visits in terms of preparation and in terms of
meeting lots of students. Thanks to all.
• Faculty appreciation reception, please RSVP to Amanda Gist.
VI.

Old Business
2

A.

UUP update (Martha Livingston)
•
•

•

•
•
•

B.

Thanks to Andy Mattson and the Senate for raising the issue of the new contract with
Chancellor Johnson.
The contract rally happened. There is no answer yet. We feel we are getting closer.
Until there is a deal there is nothing to report. Other state unions which have already
settled got 2% across the board and longevity increases or other ways of above-base
pay. We don’t want a cheesy bonus. We want something that will stick on the base.
We don’t prefer DSI as a way to add to our salaries. Some want DSI because it adds to
base. But there is a separate issue of management adding money to the base based on
who they like or not. We want money on base across the board. Faculty apply
individually for money and the Provost decides but professionals go through their
department heads. We don’t have a contract yet, we hope it will be soon. If we have 5
year contract it would end in 2021 since it goes back to 2016. Every provision of our
expired 2016 contract still applies but we don’t get joint labor management funds or
professional development grants such as getting a semester off pre-tenure. It helped
some of us in the past, but hopefully will be reinstated when we have a contract.
The Janus case is in the Supreme Court, this is essentially Fredrich’s round 2. This case
does the following. Public sector employees do not have to be part of the union. Folks
could get benefits from the union without paying into the union. Unions now become
much weaker. This makes union business harder to conduct. Time and money is part
of what unions fight for. This decision is likely to come down next month. We will be in
a different landscape. We need to encourage everyone to be active in the union.
Newsletter goes out online and on paper. Let us know stories we cover and stories.
See Newsletter attached below.
Students are not allowed to sell our syllabi. We can also give creative commons
copyright so that syllabi could be shared. The Librarian can send Martha language
about that. This is a larger governance issue about copyright of faculty creations.
Admin and UUP are joining forces on this.

Micro-credentials (Ed Bever)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Micro-cred could be completed by non-students or by those with a Bachelor’s.
Two areas are proposed for a pilot – IT and business. This could complement our
efforts to do some kind of curricular mapping.
Student affairs already has a certificate in leadership.
Faculty asks about getting students involved in activities outside of classroom. Can we
offer micro-cred for students who participate in study abroad or do a research
presentation?
Badges should be small, a couple of courses 2-4. This is open for us to determine.
Faculty should maintain control over curriculum. We have an opportunity to be flexible
and think more outside of the box for certifying people outside of our traditional majors
and minors.
Defining how badges work will determine whether they are competing for resources
with minors and majors. The main motivator is to get more students and there is great
potential to make better use of the resources. There is a possibility of competing
resources and we need to be careful. Pat Smith wants to start small for implementing
3

•

•
•
•
VII.

this. We can integrate into banner and degree works. Tracking non-credits is a
different procedure. If it becomes large scale we might need a more permanent system
that would be justified by the extent to which they are being used.
The non-credit badges such as interviewing and networking, there is career and
preparation. The focus is academic related badges, but they don’t need to be could be
other work life skills. Something like research and outside of the classroom can be into
the badge. It is wide open. Faculty governance should come up with a general
framework for a mechanism for badges.
There could be a badge in not-for-profit or grant writing.
B. Hillery mentions Stony Brook as example. Look at how they use them. Badges are
electronic, and it goes to LinkedIn and it is not in the transcript. Different colors
distinguish credit courses and non-credit courses.
Andy Mattson will send an email to chairs and deans to get folks involved in this
working group.

New Business
A. FRRC on Syllabus Strategies update (Sarah Smith, Peter Ikeler, and Ali Ebrahimi)
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

VIII.

We compiled a list of syllabus criteria based on student grievances. It is much easier to
make decisions if syllabus is very clear. For new faculty we have a document available
to outline syllabi. For student grievances, describing how you grade is important.
Describing your contact policy and formatting expectations. Course withdrawal policies
and access to the learning centers is important too. We have an example of a course
calendar. More structure is helpful. The syllabus is very helpful when grievances are
submitted. If your program has certain accreditation requirements you may need
certain language in your syllabus. Thanks to all members of FRRC for working on this.
There must be a mutual understanding if there is copying of syllabus between faculty.
Keep in mind that your syllabus is your intellectual property.
You may want to add to the syllabus for classes with internships to say something about
felony charges so that we don’t put people where they are not supposed to be such as
child abusers in schools. SUNY has a statement about this.
Not all rights come with responsibility. Adjunct syllabi should be reviewed by chairs.
Should add student learning outcomes to all syllabus according to middle states.
There should also be a parallel construction with how you are assessing the learning
outcomes.
It may be appropriate to include library for research intensive courses.
Course description should be the same as it appears online.
Could include college logo.
Can you send it in doc format, so we can format it?
The school is legally obliged to provide what is in the course description, FYI.
This is an opportunity to revise and update course catalog descriptions.
Faculty includes a statement of responsibility for the learning process. Come on time,
do your reading, ask questions. Also list what is the professor’s responsibility. It is a
formal acknowledgement of what the student will do. Some people include a signature
line.

Call to Faculty: Other New Business
4

•
•
IX.

Jacob Heller presents a resolution for creation of ad hoc OER committee. At next
senate meeting vote. This body can override anything senate does. Faculty are above
the senate. Senate just represents body. Senate acts when faculty is not in session.
Faculty Senate website is being updated with old documents. We are looking for help.

Announcements
• Apologies from Duncan Quarless about course evaluations. The evaluations will be open until
8am Monday.
• Governor has announced initiative for relief in Puerto Rico. D. Quarless is the point of contact
for our campus. Any student of any SUNY campus can go sign up for relief effort during the
summer. We are being asked that our campus make a commitment for credit bearing activity.
We think potentially first year credits. We would end up owning credits issued offered by
another campus. L. Anker comments they list 4 campuses and we are not listed so the process
is a bit confusing. There is another category of “other”. That is because some other campuses
are part of the hub coordinating center. Campuses reroute students from us to the hub. They
are going to cover the students for up to 3 credits – they will pay for that. We should be part
of those 3 credits, we should do a week before it to prepare students, and we should be doing
research on international or civic engagement. Students can come back with PTSD. It is
intense, and the program ends fast and is overwhelming. We should provide something before
and something after the program. There is a student application process. They will not be
accepted just because they apply. If our students get accepted and if we don’t have course
ready to go they potentially can earn credit that another campus with provide. There are 2
nonprofits at the center of this – all hands and hearts (plug and play for SUNY in Puerto Rico,
they have base campus for students, have strong policies on sex harassment etc., will provide
ground transport in addition to room and board). The second is a non-profit that will not be in
place until mid-July. Students have a one-week window to apply. They have until next Friday
to apply. This is travel within the US, but we do not put DACA students on a plane ever. There
are stories of DACA students being stopped. This has resulted in families being deported in
some cases in the past. We should send a message to students saying the opportunity is there
but also saying the issues. Media and public relations can send a message to all students.

X.

Adjournment 2:23pm

5

APRIL 2018

WAVELENGTHS
United University Professions * Old Westbury Chapter

UUPers Rally For a Fair Contract

Inside this issue:

By Martha Livingston, UUP-Old Westbury Chapter President

Rally for a Fair Contract 1
Who Owns Your Syllabus?

2

An Important Supreme
Court Case

3

Snow Day Blues

4

Upcoming Events

4

NYSUT Ad on
Member Benefits

5

UUP Representatives

6

WE’RE BACK! After a
six-year hiatus, Wavelengths is back!
We’d like to invite YOU
to contribute stories, and
let us know about things
you’d like us to discuss:
academic concerns, professional concerns, contingent concerns , etc.
This issue was produced
by (in alphabetical order)
Kyle Anderson, Ryan
Baker, Martha Livingston, Carol Quirke and
Regina Scarbrough.

“What do we want? A fair contract! When do we want it? NOW!” It’s been
22 months since the end of our old contract. On March 1st, over 70 UUPOld Westbury members, along with UUPers on every campus statewide,
rallied to demand that SUNY sit down with us and negotiate a fair contract!
Our members wrote their own signs, and we rallied and chanted as we
walked around the Campus Center. The rally culminated with our handing
our petitions, signed by over 200 members, to the President’s Office asking our campus administration to put some pressure on the Chancellor to
get this contract done.
Featured at our rally was a message of solidarity brought by CSEA-Old
Westbury President Tommy Noble; a number of other CSEA members also joined and marched with us in solidarity. Dom D’Angelo, 4, the son of
member Phil D’Angelo, also brought his own message of urgency: “My
daddy needs more money!”

Page 2

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

WHO OWNS YOUR SYLLABUS? by Carol Quirke, American Studies
Digital media has disrupted the travel industry, print media, the music industry, the taxi industry—and
of course it is shaping higher education as well. Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) were touted by
The New York Times and the Chronicle of Higher Education as game-changers. The MOOC revolution has
not yet transpired, but online, hybrid and flipped courses are altering higher education. Two digital developments threaten UUP members’ intellectual property rights. All faculty should be aware of possible encroachments by companies and some SUNY administrators and of what UUP members can do to address this concern.
New companies aimed at selling professors’ course materials are popping up. Companies like Study
Blue, Course Hero, Study Soup, and Chegg Study take professors’ course material from students—things
like syllabi, exams, course notes, homework notes and study guides—and then sell them to other students.
(Entry to the sites often requires providing such materials.) SUNY Old Westbury School of Business materials were found on Study Blue and Course Hero, for example, and Biology exam support was found on
Course Hero. Chegg Study offers students photographs of quizzes taken by students in the Physics Department. Study Soup offers notes from multiple classes.
The union is asking departments or professors who are facing the theft of intellectual property to alert
them. The statewide UUP Vice President of Academics is Jamie Dangler, who can be reached at (800) 3424206, or jdangler@uupmail.org. The union is compiling examples of this practice and is consulting with attorneys at New York State United Teachers (NYSUT) about possible options to address this problem. Of
course some professors may wish to have some course materials shared in this way; SUNY Policies of the
Board of Trustees’ “Title J” clarifies that such materials belong to professors, and that they alone have the
right to share their materials. (See http://system.suny.edu/media/suny/content-assets/documents/
boardoftrustees/SUNY-BOT-Policies-June2014.pdf)
Additionally, at some campuses, professors are being informally pressured to make their online materials perpetually available to the university, thereby bypassing the professor’s right to share materials. The
union suggests offering a one-time permission that would require the university to ask for permission again if
it wishes to pass materials along to others a second time. Lest this seem overly cautious, when Long Island
University faculty went out on strike in fall 2016, administrators taught classes from faculty syllabi. While
SUNY faculty cannot strike due to the Taylor law, one can imagine circumstances where a faculty member
could lose control of their course material. Many departments enjoy collegial relations, where syllabi, readings, and other course material are regularly shared. Nonetheless, our intellectual labor was engaged in developing courses, and faculty should be aware that they retain the rights for their intellectual property.
The union is taking other actions in addition to exploring legal options. UUP’s statewide leadership
has recommended that its campus chapter officers discuss the sale of syllabi with administration to explore
possible campus actions such as revising the Student Code of Conduct. UUP also recommends that faculty
put their copyright on course materials and consider covering this in courses and workshops that cover plagiarism and copyright issues. They have been in communication with University Faculty Senate leaders and
believe both student governance and campus faculty governance should be apprised of these pressures on
faculty. Our campus administration has asked to work with us to guard against these encroachments.
UUP’s Geneseo chapter has presented a resolution to address this problem to its campus senate. It
has been shared with all UUP chapters as a possible model for UUP-Senate collaboration. Finally, UUP has
brought this up in Labor-Management meetings with SUNY Central, which has agreed to inform individual
campuses of members’ concerns, and their rights through the Board of Trustees Policies. Many campuses
have developed clear policies regarding online education to clarify that faculty own their course materials regardless of how a course is taught. SUNY Potsdam has one of the clearest and best examples of campus
policies on this.
Interested in more information about intellectual property rights? The union has provided this broad
overview: http://uupinfo.org/reports/reportpdf/IntellectualPropertyUpdated2018.pdf.

Page 3

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

AN IMPORTANT SUPREME COURT CASE by Kyle Anderson, History & Philosophy
Last February, Randi Weingarten, the President of the American Federation of Teachers [UUP’s parent union] spoke to a group of teachers from across Long Island about the Supreme Court case of Janus vs.
AFSCME. Mark Janus is an employee of the Illinois state government, and he felt his rights were violated
when he was forced to pay “agency fees” to the union that had used collective bargaining to negotiate his
contract, even though he was not a member of the union.
Agency fees have long been collected by unions to compensate them for the work they do in negotiating contracts and representing employees in grievances and arbitrations. Because all employees benefit from
these activities regardless of whether or not they join the union, agency fees are an important way for unions
to prevent so-called “free rider problems,” where people can benefit from the union without contributing anything to it.
While Mr. Janus has claimed that his personal free speech rights are violated when he pays a fee to
the union that has negotiated his contract, the powerful allies he has attracted have not joined the fight out of
any altruistic concern for the first amendment. The right-wing State Policy Network, where Mr. Janus has
posted videos, recently stated of his case: “this is our opportunity to defund and de-fang one of our freedom
movement’s most powerful opponents: the government unions.” The Janus case is not about free speech, it
is about union-busting, and it is funded by billionaire donors like the Koch Brothers.
With President Trump’s recent appointee, Neil Gorsuch, joining the court one year ago, the Janus
case may well be decided in favor of the plaintiff. But that is not cause for despair. We will fight back against
Janus by convincing people of the benefits of their union. We need to sign even more people up, and show
people who are hesitant to pay agency fees that we are not abandoning them, and that we appreciate their
membership.

Martha Livingston, President, Old Westbury UUP, Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of
Teachers, and Kyle Anderson, Faculty Member, History & Philosophy (L to R)

Page 4

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

SNOW DAY BLUES by Ryan Baker, Information Technology
Roughly 170 miles separate the campus of SUNY Old Westbury and the Governor's Mansion
in the state capital of Albany. While Long Island is surrounded by deep seawater for miles in nearly
every direction, Albany is a mostly-landlocked city perched on the shore of the Hudson River, a
mere 878 feet wide and 12 feet deep. These two locations are separated by both considerable distance and localized climates, making it all the more difficult to understand why the decision to cancel
classes and activities for the safety of our students and faculty can be made locally by a group of
administrators, but the decision to order the campus closed for the safety of the professional staff
can be made only by the Governor, who sits more than a hundred and fifty miles away and whose
view out the window gives no indication whatsoever of the severity of inclement weather in Nassau
County.
When the decision is made in Old Westbury to cancel classes, students and faculty can stay
home in relative safety, whereas the professional staff are expected to report to work to provide service to an empty campus, or else expend a day of hard-earned vacation time. This creates an unsafe situation in which professional staff are compelled to risk commuting to work on dangerous
roads to arrive at a campus whose pathways and parking lots have not yet been cleared.
What kind of mixed message does such a system create when the county has been declared
a state of emergency, travel advisories have been issued, and yet our campus offices remain open
and our professional staff are still being asked to report to work? Why can't our professional staff be
afforded the same simple courtesy of a "snow day" extended to our faculty and students? I suspect
that a sizable number of SUNY Old Westbury UUP members would be curious to learn the answers.

Upcoming Events:
Coming Soon: Department Rep. meeting. Watch this space!
Chapter Action Project (CAP) fun event! Wednesday, May 2nd, MPR B, drop in
any time from 12:30 to 3:30 for “Take a Break,” to ask questions and play
games, win prizes, and partake of coffee and cookies.
General Membership Meeting & Picnic, 12:00pm-3:00pm, Wednesday, May
23rd, 2018, Campus Center.
Chapter Outing to Mets game, 1:00pm, Sunday June 3rd, 2018 vs. the Chicago
Cubs. Contact office if interested.

APRIL 2018

WAVELENGTHS

Page 5

Page 6

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

United University Professions
SUNY Old Westbury Chapter
Campus Center E204

UUP Old Westbury Chapter Office
Chapter Assistant:
Mary Navarra
Chapter Office Hours:
Tuesday-Friday
10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Phone: (516)333-5770
E-mail: oldwestbury@uupmail.org
UUP website: www.uupinfo.org
NEW! Chapter Website:
www.oldwestburyuup.wordpress.com

WHO IS YOUR DEPARTMENT REP?
If you can’t answer this question, it could be
that your department does not yet have a department rep. Call the UUP office (333-5770)
and ask our Chapter Assistant, Mary Navarra,
who your department rep is. If there isn’t one
yet, how about YOU??

Old Westbury UUP Chapter
President:
Chapter Assistant
VP Academic:
VP Professional:
Secretary:
Treasurer:
Officer for Contingents:
Officer for Retirees:
VOTE-COPE Coordinator:
Delegates (Academic):
Delegates (Professional):
Labor Relations Specialist:

Martha Livingston
Mary Navarra
Carol Quirke
Eliliana Martinez
Peter Ikeler
Eric Doucet
Victor Visconti
Delores James
Ana Martinez
Eileen Landy
Ashlee Lien
Steve Samuel
Candelario Franco
Ana Martinez
Rafat Sada
Lynda Larson
llarson@nysutmail.org

The opinions expressed in this newsletter are those of the contributors
and not necessarily those of United University Professions