Resolution for the Proposal for
A Micro-Credential in Forensic Accounting
WHEREAS, the School of Business Graduate Programs proposed to create a Micro-Credential
in Forensic Accounting, and
WHEREAS, a proposed program offers an opportunity for students to gain a knowledge of
forensic accounting, specifically, in relation to recognition, detection and
prevention of fraudulent activity, the use of information technology and real-life
issues of fraud, and
WHEREAS, a proposed program offers a valuable credential for students who wish to highlight
their skills in the specialized area of forensic accounting, and
WHEREAS, a proposed program helps prepare students to work in specialized areas of a
growing field of forensic accounting, including public accounting firms, law
offices, law enforcement and other government agencies, or business organizations,
and
WHEREAS, the proposed program consists of three graduate-level courses within the existing
MS in Forensic Accounting program and does not require any additional resources,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the Proposal for MicroCredential in Forensic Accounting

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), May 8, 2021
The Program Announcement approved by CAP, May 7, 2021
[CAP Membership]
Tejas Bouklas, Svetlana Jovic, Yu Lei, Matthew Lippert, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Sheyi Oladipo,
Dana Sinclair, Kerry Weir, and Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)

The Proposal approved by the Faculty Senate by unanimous consent on 5/14/2021,
pending a future name change.

Memorandum
To: Chair, CAP Committee
From: Shalei Simms, Director, School of Business Graduate Programs
Subj: Proposal for Micro-credential in Forensic Accounting
Date: April 9, 2021

A. Purpose
The Micro-credential in Forensic Accounting is designed for individuals that are in, or are
aspiring to be in, the field of forensic accounting. The courses in this micro-credential will allow
students to gain a solid grounding in forensic accounting. The micro-credential will be available
to individuals with an undergraduate degree in accounting, who want to expand their portfolio
of skills, but who may not yet be ready to commit to a full graduate program. Those individuals
with an undergraduate degree in a discipline other than accounting may undertake the credential
upon completion of specified prerequisites prior to beginning the micro-credential program.
B. Demand
The New York State Department of Labor estimates that annual job growth in the field of accounting &
auditing will be between 10% and 20% on Long Island and in New York City. Moreover, the workforce
demand for such openings is reinforced by the 2014-2015 SUNY High Needs Program identifying
accountants and auditors as a high need area with annual average openings in New York State projected
to reach almost 3,600. Due to its close proximity to New York City, Old Westbury is fortunate to be in
a geographic area containing hundreds of accounting and financial institutions with a demand for
employees trained in forensic accounting. The courses in this micro-credential can also be used to meet
the 150 credit hour requirement necessary for licensure as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) in New
York State. In addition, courses offered in the micro-credential program can be used by CPA’s to fulfill
their continuing professional education (CPE) requirements. SUNY College at Old Westbury is an
accredited NYS CPE sponsor (#0002067). CPA’s will receive 45 CPE credits in forensic accounting for
each course successfully completed.

C. Resources
Courses offered by the School of Business Graduate Programs for this micro-credential program are
already being offered as part of the Master of Science in Forensic Accounting program. Therefore, there
will be no additional resources required to implement this program.
D. Additional Materials
Following is a catalog copy for the micro-credential, modeled on the catalog copy for minors.

Forensic Accounting Micro-Credential – DRAFT
Sponsoring School: School of Business Graduate Programs
The Micro-credential in Forensic Accounting is designed for individuals that are in, or are aspiring
to be in, the field of forensic accounting. It consists of three courses: one aimed at teaching students
to recognize, detect, and prevent fraudulent activity; one teaching the use of information
technology; and the final class providing students the opportunity to examine real-life issues of
fraud. Students successfully completing the requirements for the micro-credential in forensic
accounting will have a solid education in forensics and will be prepared to work in the tax
department of public accounting firms, law offices, law enforcement, government agencies, or
other business organizations.

Requirements
Students are required to take 9 credits by completing all three of the following courses with a grade
of B or higher:
Fraud Examination (BU7560)
Accounting Information Systems (BU7555)
Case Studies in Forensic Accounting (BU7561)

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students who complete these courses at the required level will:




Demonstrate a broad and in depth knowledge of forensic accounting principles, theories
and practice. This knowledge should enable students to develop solutions to complex
problems utilizing critical thinking and technical skills.
Be prepared to become socially responsible business leaders able to uncover outcomes
based on lapses in ethical judgement and achieve resolutions in a socially and
professionally responsible manner.
Be able to communicate findings from their analysis and investigation effectively, both in
writing and orally.