SUNY/COLLEGE at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, September 20,2002
12:30 p.m-2:30 p.m.
Room C 102 Academic Village
Present: R. Colon-Urban, K. Wood, P. O’Sullivan, I. Ahmed, A. Barbera, M. Barrett, C.
Bernard, A. Blasius, S. Chovnick, J.M. Conforti, M. Crocitto, R. Jill Edelson, C. Hobson,
B. Joseph, B. Kalmans, M. Keefe, M. Keizer, S. Kirkpatrick, S. Mahmoud, A. Martinez,
M. Metlay, W. Shenouda, G. Smedeker, M. Teloki, C.J. Wright, K.Velsor
Visitors: C. Anderson, R. Gonzalez, M. Marquez Bell, R. Ramdeen, N. Sacks, R.
Welton, C. Wardell

1.

Approval of the minutes, May 3, 2002 meeting
The minutes of the meeting of May 3 were amended to read under Item #7:The
Senate Chair requested that Senator Barbera take the revised resolution to the Bylaws
Committee. They were then accepted unanimously as submitted. The Chair noted
that the revised resolution was not received and promised to follow up.

2.

Report from Faculty Senate Chair (Rita Colon-Urban)

The Executive Committee met with President Butts about how to improve working

with the Budget and Planning Committee. Monthly meetings were agreed upon and
the President provided a list of meeting dates so as to follow the pattern of other
SUNY campuses. Continuing members are R. Hoyte, T. DelGiudice, Rita
Buttermilch, Runi Mukherje and Rita Colon-Urban, ex officio.

We need to assure

continuity in membership across time and will ask for nominations.

There are new guidelines for the Old Westbury Foundation grant applications ranging
from $1,000-$5,000. If there is justification for additional funding amounts, the
Foundation will consider it. Next deadline is November

will be in the spring for fall grants.

15; from now on, deadlines

The ARPT committee and the Office of Student Development (Judicial Review
Board) need additional faculty members.
The parking situation in which faculty have to park a great distance from their classes
and carry laptops has not changed but should improve when the new student dorms
are ready. Senate will follow-up with this.

Sen. George Snedeker asked that the situation in the Office for Students with

Disabilities be added as new business item on the next agenda.

3.

Report from Academic Vice President (Patrick O’Sullivan, Acting)
The Academic VP explained that he assumed this interim position to assist with the
goal of serving students. There is a sharing of the pain of the budget shortfall by all
departments, which was done in consultation with departmental chairs.
Everyone should have been notified about the DSI that was announced to chairs for
further dissemination.
Dr. O’Sulivan, Len Davis, and Mary Marquez Bell will attend a meeting in Albany
on October 16" and 17" to discuss the Old Westbury budget. System Administration
believes that we have not done the best with our allocation. Under the current
circumstances, the College cannot go on. This year even with a $3.3 million subsidy,
we will be short $1.7 million. The Academic Vice-President expressed his belief that
our budget shortfall can be solved with collective intelligence.

The Academic Vice President is committed to maintaining faculty development for
travel and research, which is especially important for young faculty. He was informed
that this will prevail.

Exact amounts are presently unknown.

We need some conceptual framework to guide decision making to protect and defend
the integrity of all departments. It is essential we offer masters degrees to grow
enrollments and maintain the TEP, School of Business, Computer Science, Media and

Communications degrees while still attending to the liberal arts programs such as PES
and Modern Languages. Our MOU was to double enrollments from 3100-6200 maybe in three to five years.
Questions/Comments

Some faculty expressed concern over the short time frame allocated for the
submission of files by 4:00 p.m. on September 27, 2002. Dr. O’Sullivan extended the

deadline for submission of DSI files to Monday, September 30, 2002, at noon.

In response to a question about a faculty governance representative at the meeting in
Albany, Dr. O’Sullivan noted that a smaller group of academic professionals was
preferred by System Administration.
Barbara Joseph inquired about the opportunity to review adjunct cuts and whether the
Language House will close. Dr. O’Sullivan responded that decisions were made in
consultation with department chairs, reviewed, and reversed if necessary.

Language House will remain open.

The

The Chair noted that we need to respond to the Middle States Association on five or
six points by 4/1/03 and that the process involves at least six months. The Academic
Vice-President submitted a list of names of committee members to prepare the

Middle States response. but will wait to reveal them. He has not yet heard back from

the President. Although the AVP remarked this would not be a very large report, the

Chair noted its importance.

4. Approval of Voting Rights for Non-teaching Professionals (NTP) in Senate
The Chair stated that we need to comply with the By-Laws and certify the voting
rights of NTPs. Voting rights for Ana Martinez, Candelario Franco, and Ibssa Ahmed
were unanimously approved.
5. Election of Officers for Executive Committee
Last year’s Executive Committee was operating at last week’s general faculty

meeting. Rita Colon-Urban moves from Vice Chair last year to Chair this year.

Kate

Velsor was unanimously elected as Vice Chair this year. Also unanimously elected
were Madeline Crocitto as Secretary/Treasurer, and Karlyn Wood as Parlimentarian.
Said Mahmoud and Stephen Kirkpatrick were nominated for the Senator-at-Large
position with Stephen Kirkpatrick winning (11-0-0). Maureen Dolan continues on the
Executive Committee because she was elected as our University Senator.
ARPT Emergency (Minna Barrett, Chair)
M. Barrett (ARPT Chair) described the unusual situation of have no untenured people
available for ARPT. The members who would normally be serving can’t because they
are coming up for reappointment or tenure or for other reasons. Therefore, a written
resolution was introduced and distributed to the faculty (see attached). It would allow
the Faculty Chair to appoint temporary members to the ARPT subject to election with
the next three months. The resolution passed: 20-0-1.

6. Introduction of New Faculty
No new faculty were present to be introduced.
7.

Discussion of Senate Meeting Calendar
The Senate Meeting Calendar distributed at the meeting passed by acclamation.

8.

Report on BPC
BPC member Rita Buttermilch had informed the Chair that there was nothing new to
report since the Committe had only met once. The continuing members are R.
Hoyte, R. Buttermilch, T. DelGiudice, and Runi Mukerji.

we send three names and he will choose two.

President Butts asked that

Willing volunteers are Judy Walsh and Sirousse Tabriztchi. Minna suggested that the
Executive Committee send out a call for volunteers and wait two weeks. She
presented the motion:

Whereas we charge the Executive Committee with distributing
notification that there are two positions and need diversity of
representation, the Committee will ask people to self-nominate or
have departments nominate potential BPC members.
The motion was seconded by Stephen Kirkpatrick and approved unanimously.
New Business

The Student Government President announced open positions and distributed the list
of student senators. He asked faculty to encourage students to respond so clubs have
a budget for needed programs, especially for more on campus as well as promote
greater commuter student involvement.
Craig Wright requested volunteers for Judicial Board reviews. Having more
volunteers lowers the burden in terms of the number of cases per faculty, avoids
burnout, and allows for a timely response to cases. The faculty expressed some
concern over the timing of the hearings on Tuesday and Thursdays between 10:30

am. and 2:30 p.m., due to potential conflict with classroom responsibilities.

The Fall Convocation is October 9 at 11:00 a.m. with the theme “Rising to the
Extraordinary."
Questions/Comments

Barabara Joseph inquired as to the number of students suspended or dismissed and
whether this is related to retention. Craig responded that with our zero tolerance
policy in effect for two years we have had 17 suspensions. Eight people were
expelled from the College and 11 expelled from Residential Life. In such cases,
academically students have the right to come on campus. However, he alerted to the
faculty to avoid working with students on hold from the Registrar’s office who
should not be on campus but who would claim to be here to see a faculty member.
Mary Marquez Bell reported our target for first time to college students was met at
99% with 299 students; 98.7% or 612 new transfer; 97% continuing and returning
students 2220 with 71 returns stop outs; just by numbers FTE are 12 ahead, 1%
above. We are ahead of where we were last year and will adjust figures when our
census is completed.
Nancy Sacks requested more freshmen level courses.

and we ran out of courses this summer.

The freshman class has grown

She will send a prioritized request.

Becke Kalmans requested that a resolution “In Condemnation Of The Terrorization
Of Hindu Minority Professors In Bangladesh,” (see attached) be added to the next
agenda.

A NYPIRG representative on campus, Rhesa Ramdeen, explained their emphasis
on student rights, voter registration, homelessness, consumer action, environmental

issues, and higher education. Previous tuition hikes of $750 during the 1990-1995
period resulted in drop-outs. She asked faculty to inform students of the October 11
deadline for voter registration, the post card drive opposing tuition hikes, and the
taping of some of their activities to be aired on PBS. She may be contacted at A113
X3046 to arrange for classroom visits. Hedva Lewittes asked about the registration
location - it will be in the hall with hours varying with staffing.
There was no UUP report due to the fact that C. Franco and B. Hillary were in

Albany in UUP contract negotiations.

Jill Edelson asked about the distribution of information about campus events during
office hours. Craig write explained we hold one major college-wide event a month
due to budget and assured that he would send a note to Michael Kinane to use the
monthly calendar as a PR venue.

Anthony Barbera suggested faculty tell students to join organizations and
emphasize that they will not miss class time.
The Chair announced the next meeting on October 4, 2002 and the meeting was
adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Madeline Crocitto