SUNY/COLLEGE at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, January 31, 2003

12:30 p.m-2:10 p.m.

Room C 102 Academic Village
Present: R. Colon-Urban, K. Velsor, M. Crocitto, K. Wood, C. Butts, P. O Sullivan, J.
Conforti, R.J. Edelson, I. Ahmed, A. Martinéz, M. Teloki, A. Barbera, B. Joseph, S. Pryor, C.
Sawyer, C. Hobson, J. Harris, M. Adams, C. Bernard, S. Kirkpatrick
Visitors: J. Llana, N. Sacks, R.J. Welton, M. Marquez Bell, R. Brown, L. Davis, M. Rankin

1.

Approval of Minutes — November 15, 2002; December 13, 2002
The minutes of the meetings of November 15, 2002, which were deferred due to the lack

of a quorum at the previous meeting, and the minutes of the meeting of December 13,
2002 were unanimously approved.
Report from the Chair of Faculty Senate (R. Colén-Urban)

The Executive Committee met with M. Rankin and P. O’Sullivan in January. The
Committee reiterated the Senate’s position that merit and equity are two separate issues
for DSI] awards. The Administration’s position is that there has to be merit in order to
have equity. This remains a point of discussion. :
SUNY Senate has requested that the Executive Committee provide information about
campus procedures to evaluate administration. Administrative personnel are reviewed
through the chain of command. The Chair was unable to find any forum in which faculty
have participated in an evaluation of the administration. The President is evaluated by the
Chancellor and we have no information about what the evaluation is.
Candidates for the Academic Vice President position are presently being interviewed.
The Chair urged senators to participate in upcoming interviews on Feb. 13, 20, and 27 as
arranged by the Search Committee. Faculty will also be welcome in any other meetings at
which faculty are present. The times and dates at which the AVP candidates will be
available will be sent to faculty.
The Chair announced an opening on the BPC committee, which is now temporarily filled
by S. Kirkpatrick.
The President sent a thank-you note to the faculty for their gifts and expressions of
concern.

As was noted in Newsday, Bob Hoyte, Distinguished Teaching Professor

received the Martin Luther King Memorial award for his years of research and training
designed to encourage minority students to pursue careers in education.
Report from AVP (Patrick O’Sullivan, Acting)

The AVP addressed eight points:

2
SED will conduct a readiness review tentatively scheduled for the week of March 10.
Accounting will be reviewed. The MS in Education has been withdrawn from SUNY and
will be resubmitted in time for classes to commence September 2004. Assessment
criterion will include the soundness of undergraduate programs.
There is excellent progress in organizing the report to be submitted to Middle States by
April 2003. The AVP thanked the committee chairs.
The Presidential Task Force on the three-credit system will meet Feb. 7. Letters of
invitation have been sent out. It is time for an open, honest discussion in terms of how the
number of credits per course impacts competitiveness, how various majors and programs
work under this model, and general education. The AVP will keep faculty informed.
Due to mandated 5% cuts, Academic Affairs reduced the number of adjunct sections by
22. Distribution analysis will be shared with chairs, who participated in discussions. The
AVP expressed his appreciation to the chairs.
;
Academic Affairs has asked for an expanded summer school program to allow us to pay
for adjuncts. It is up to individual chairs and departments to organize the best and most
expanded schedule possible.
All faculty up for tenure and promotion to associate and full professor will need external
evaluation letters per p. 47 of the By-Laws.
The AVP encouraged faculty to submit grant proposals with appropriate lead-time for
proposal evaluation. Proposals should be submitted at least a week before the grant
deadline to obtain signatures and avoid last minute running around. Submissions should
be complete and accurate.

As of December 1, we have a Math and Computer Science Dept.
In response to questions, the AVP noted SUNY withdrew the TEP proposal from SED,
and that we withdrew from SUNY to complete details. The Math Department Tutoring
Lab will not move this semester, but there is no definitive information about space
allocations. We will increase demand for summer school by targeting students who live
without our area but attend school elsewhere. The minimum number of students needed
for a class to run will be brought up at the upcoming chair’s meeting.
4. Report from the President (Calvin O. Butts, III)

The President thanked the faculty for their gifts and cards. He will conduct a tour of the
new dorms for Newsday. The capital budget allocations are intact concerning building a
new Academic Crescent building. What is under our consideration is whether to continue
with the process of building a new Academic Crescent or use the funds for Academic
Village.

5.

Enrollment Report (Mary Marquez Bell)
We were 103% above our FTE goal before financial cancellations; if half re-register we
will be at 98%. We expect strong enrollment for the spring semester. Our annualized
FTE for funding will be above our goal for this year, which will increase revenues. The

head count was 3084 before cancellations, full-time 2637, about 2500 after cancellations.

In response to a question, M. Marquez Bell noted that cancellations were delayed until
financial aid funds were transmitted. The problem is that students register and do not pay
or make a partial payment and then do not complete it. Have tried posters, flyers,
announcements, and reminders at the beginning of semester to make appointments for
financial aid. New students enter and don’t look at deadlines. Nancy Sacks started a
separate list of first-year students to be called before they are canceled.
Students’ names are supplied to the INS. It is a Federal law we must abide by in order to
participate in study abroad programs and accept students on F-1 visas. Our files are in
compliance. Have to report on a weekly basis any change such as telephone, address,
change of major, or status. INS is responsible for enforcement.
Our first time to college goal was 41 students, we have 28. Exceeded full-time goal of 24
but have 26, anticipated 17 part-time students but only have 2. Transfers are 4% above
our 383 goal, with 397 continuing and returning; 2% ahead with 2612 expected, have
2659; FTE 2637 targeted 2556, and registration hasn’t ended. No breakdowns by major.
6.

Student Government Report

Major issues — new dorms are beautiful and cost more. Unsure about opening date for the
new Student Union. A tuition increase may impact enrollments. Close to 1,400 students
receive TAP which will be cut by one-third. STEP and C-STEP programs are also
impacted. The Student Assembly voted against the trustees’ resolution on a tuition
increase. SGA will assign a liaison to work with Faculty Senate, especially on the issue of
how cuts in faculty will influence students’ graduation. The student senate meeting
agenda will be distributed to Faculty Senate. There will be a second call for student
involvement, asking applicants for a letter of intention and resume. Student Government
has been involved in the committee to select outside vendors for the Student Union. There
is a problem with insufficient student volume.
Len Davis reported there were on-going discussions to house C.W. Post students on a onesemester basis and a larger proposal with Nassau Community College.
The University Senate informed Rita Colon-Urban that in addition to a possible tuition
increase, tuition assistance awards would be withheld until a student graduates.
Len Davis commented that the tuition increase is to compensate for cuts per student, at a
cost of the $1200 increase. They are still modeling population gains from the private
schools and losses due to TAP.

4
7.

Report from Secretary-Treasurer (M. Crocitto)

The Faculty Fund, which started with $1,050.81, has approved expenditures of $350 so far
this year for an approximate balance of $700. Faculty were asked to contribute to the
faculty fund based on their salary with suggested contributions unchanged from last year.
Senators Shumer and Clinton did not respond to our letters informing them of our
resolution protesting a war in Iraq. Neither senator nor Rep. Crowley responded to our
letters about the persecution of Hindu minority professors. Follow-up letters were sent
December 6" but we still have no response.
A human-rights group, Global Importune has agreed to take the case of the Hindu
professors by including it in its monthly letter-writing campaign. It has also allowed us to
use its logo as letterhead to write our own letters. Faculty approved mailing expenditures
for this purpose.
The secretary also asked chairs of committees who are giving reports to provide the major
points of their reports in writing.
8.

New Business

Cathy Bernard invited the faculty to bring students, family members, and friends to the
Art Gallery reception on Feb. 12 from 4-6 p.m. to celebrate an exhibit on A fricanAmerican history by Debra Priestly. There is also a Visual Arts design exhibit in the
library on electronic media. The AVP asked faculty to support the Wallace Gallery and
thanked the Visual Arts Department members for their work.
Tom DelGiudice has received a grant to offer a conference on campus on April 4"
offering best practices in course migration and Web integration. Proposals are due March
Sle

Nancy Sacks invited faculty to serve on the orientation committee and offered an early
invitation to a luncheon to meet new students on July 12" which is renamed the faculty
luncheon.
Rita Colon-Urban suggested faculty should have the opportunity to prepare a position on
the pros and cons of the three-credit or four-credit model. Although the president has
appointed a task force, and chairs are discussing the issue, they are not part of faculty

governance.

A motion was proposed to encourage every department and senators to benefit from the
fullest of discussions on the issue, since each department is impacted different. The
motion reads: Senate asks all departments to undertake full and prompt discussion of
pros and cons of three credit versus four credit model and report to the Senate. It was
unanimously approved, with the item to be placed on the next Senate meeting agenda.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:10 p.m.