Newsday.com: Expanding a School and Protecting Groundwater

http://www.newsday.com/templates/mi...section=%2Fnews%2Fopinion%2F lett

http://www.newsday.com/news/opinion/letters/ny-2556179jan18.story
LETTERS

Expanding a School and Protecting Groundwater
January 18, 2002
Here's the simple answer to what has become a complex issue: The environment at the State University of
New York College at Old Westbury will be cared for. If pending legislation that would preserve about 300
acres is signed into law, we at Old Westbury will abide by it. If that legislation does not receive the
governor's ultimate approval, our college will do what is right, both for the college's future, and that of our
Long Island neighbors.
We are committed to expanding our college. Adding new facilities is a key ingredient in that growth.
However, the careful, respectful treatment of the beautiful ecology of our campus is also key. The current
administration of this college is, and has always been, committed to ensuring the least amount of disruption
to the environment, including having all projects evaluated under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act.

Further, your editorial "Pataki Should Approve Plan for SUNY Old Westbury" \[Jan. 7\] claims that Old
Westbury "needs a lot of work, academically and cosmetically." Yes, some of our campus facilities require
upgrades, the issue being addressed by new and planned construction and rehabilitation projects.
As to academic quality, however, I submit that no such work needs to be done. Our faculty of more than

200 full- and part-time professors is comprised of men and women respected both for their teaching skills
and their scholarly and research efforts. These learned professionals have educated more than 14,000
students since this college's founding. Alumni of Old Westbury have gone on to be leaders in the business
and civic communties of Long Island, New York City and our nation. I believe that each and every one of
these successful faculty members and alumni would, like me, disagree with Newsday's concerns about the
academic quality of this institution.
Calvin O. Butts II
Editor's Note: The writer is president of the College at Old Westbury.
Old Westbury

KK

Newsday's editorial "Pataki Should Approve Plan for SUNY Old Westbury" highlighted the reasons for
Gov.George Pataki to sign the initiative unanimously passed by the State Legislature this past fall.
Newsday's excellent series on the Old Westbury land deals focused on private deals and insider politics,

1 of2

1/22/2002 4:02 F

Hap Pe ww

WWWoe
HCWoddy con

:
. /mi...sec
5 uon=
5
tempiates
vod news’ vo2b opinion

Yo2F 2K letle

which arose from the original
law. Th € new legislation would
not inter fere with needed developme
college while at the same time prot
nt at the
ecting land already owned by New
York State located in a
State-designated special groundwat
er protection area.
New York State, Suffolk County and
7
local governments
protect the county's underground
drinking water supply.
result in state-owned land in Nassau
County being made

‘
in Suffolk have been Preserving open
space to
The governor's failure to sign this meas
ure will
avai lable for development.

This is contrary to Pataki's previous
support, in Suffolk County when the
state participated in acquiring
similar land for drinking-water protecti
on. Considering no mone y was allocate
d by the state for open-space
Nassau County did not receive a dime
from
ation, signing this measure into law
is a "no

allowing other, less sensitive acres to
be available for possible
environment at no cost, while it enhances
public education.

Joseph H. Lorintz

Editor's Note: The writer is executive direc
tor of the Long Island Drinking Water
Coalition
Jericho
Copyright © 2002, Newsdav. Inc.

Pataki Should Approve Plan for SUNY Old Westbury
Thecampus at SUNY Old Westbury needsa

lot of work, academically and cosmetically, if

students are to get the quality of education
that they have been deprived of through past
mismanagement. New leadership has promoted a sense of optimism that the college’s problems can be solved and its potential as Nassau’s only four-year state campus realized.

That's why it’s time for Gov. George Pataki
to sign the bipartisan initiative, approved last
fall by the State Legislature, that would set
clear guidelines for the development of college

property to generate badly needed funds.
Pataki has demurred because the plan
would permanently set aside 300 of the cam-

puses’ 600 acres for conservation. Although
the entire campus sits atop a special state
groundwater

protection

area,

Pataki

and

SUNY Chancellor
Robert King believe the setaside is too big and would stifle campus growth
—and seta precedent for legislative meddling.
°
Newsday has been sympathetic with their
concerns. But the sponsoring lawmakers,
Assemb. Thomas DiNapoli (D-Thomaston)
and

state Sen.

Carl

Marcellino

(R-Syosset),

make a compelling case for their bill:
e@ Statelaw already demands that substantial acreage be protected.
© Old Westbury would still have 300 acres, includingits current 10 acre-footnrint—morethan

several local private colleges that have many mor
students and aggressive expansion plans.
e Thecollegeitselfwould decide which acre
age to protect. Old Westbury President Calvi
Butts Jr. has already drawna map.
@ Without the new legislation, which Patz
ki must sign by the end of the month ifit is to be
comelaw, plans foracollege-related foundatio
to develop a day-care center and money-mal

ing equestrian facility might collapse.
Pataki, whose previous appointees toc
part in what can only be described as a pilla;
ing of the campus, should put that sorry er
sode behind him and dowhatis right forthe cc
lege: Let it move forward toa

better future.