Comments in Opposition to Resolution on the Conduct of Senate Meetings 

(submitted by Maureen Dolan, Parliamentarian, 4/13/18)





The time and effort involved in crafting this resolution is appreciated. Efficient meetings sounds appealing.    



I know efficiency is great for engines and appliances, but efficiency can be at odds with broader principles of governance such as openness and transparency. I have several serious concerns about this Resolution. 



Under the Bylaws, the development of the Agenda for Senate meetings is the responsibility of the EC.

The 1st Resolved statement is supportable because it is consistent with past practice. For many years, reports of Standing Committees were regular Agenda items – not considered as Old or New Business.



2nd Resolved Statement: some Senators may already be aware that our esteemed Secretary (Jennie) has initiated improvements in the process by which reports, presentations and summary documents are submitted in preparation for inclusion on the Senate Agenda. I believe it would be helpful to allow our Secretary to describe these improvements in her Annual Report to be submitted to the Senate. Most of the procedural items cited in the 2nd Resolved statement are being actively addressed by the Secretary.  



3rd Resolved Statement stipulates that “in order to be included for discussion at a Senate meeting, reports, updates, or other presentations shall include one or more specific action items to be taken up by the Senate”. This requirement is overly restrictive and as such, not consistent with SUNY Senate standards and practices through which we derive our system of governance. Senate history shows that Open discussion itself can be the meaningful activity that occurs in response to report or update or presentation. 



This Resolution’s narrow focus on action items impinges on the Chair’s role as presiding officer. The Chair has discretion in the Order of Business and in allowing discussion. Rather than impose limitations, the Senate needs to be dynamic and resilient. We cannot foresee urgent matters that may come before us, when discussion and deliberation can be highly relevant. Case in point: open discussion on Parking Lot Environmental Impact was longer than scheduled because of the Chair’s discretion, given the importance of matter under consideration.   



4th and 5th Resolved Statements: I have serious concerns about proposed restrictions and limitations on discussion and debate during Senate meetings. The Senate was established with commitment to openness. Speakers are limited only by time – not content. A diversity of perspectives has always been encouraged. Such is our commitment to openness – that Senators may yield the floor to non-Senators and visitors. This Resolution would restrict open discussion and limit who can speak – contrary to governance principles.  



Unless the Chair is clairvoyant and able to predict a speaker’s comments or perspective, proposed restrictions on discussion would limit which voices get to be heard. That is contrary to openness and transparency. Limiting discussion may lead to shorter meetings, but would sacrifice Senate values and impede Senate’s overall effectiveness as a deliberative body. 



I also note that Oral presentation of reports (to be restricted under 4th Resolved) can provide important context and insight which might not occur if written reports were simply received and filed.   



Improvements are always possible. But this Resolution, as written, would implement procedural changes that are overly restrictive and inconsistent with our governance model. Therefore, I believe this Resolution should not be approved.