Interfolio Quick Guide for Voting Facuty – How to Complete Required “Sign Off” Forms
Prepared by ARPT Fall 2021

1. Log in to Interfolio When the candidate’s file is available for your review, you will receive an email notification with a
direct link to the file:
If you miss the email, there is also a link in the portal
under Faculty Tools.

If you log in before a file is available for your review or before a case is launched in your name, you won’t see much.

2. Navigate to Candidate File
Access candidate files in through the “Cases” tab on the Navigation Panel.

You may also see files listed
under “Home” (which is the
landing page), but they
disappear from that list once
you have completed required
items.

3a. Fill Out Forms to “Sign Off” on file and Department Evaluation (at the appropriate times).
Candidate files open to the “Case Materials” tab (which is where you’ll review the file content), but the forms you need
to complete (and detailed instructions, links to resources, etc.) are accessible under “Case Details.”

After reviewing
the file contents,
select “Fill Out
Form” to
complete the
required form:
“Department
Faculty Sign Off 1
of 2: Confirm File
Review.”

Complete and submit this first form prior to your Department Review Meeting to indicate that you have reviewed the
candidate’s file (required for vote).
Form not loading? Switching browsers or logging out/back in to Interfolio usually does the trick.

Great! Now: Stop.
There is a second form, and we know you want to be efficient, but these forms are date/time stamped –
so please hold your horses.

3b. After the Department Review Meeting (and after the finalized Department Letter is available):
Log back in to Interfolio (see above) to review the Department Letter, added to the Department Evaluation subfile,

and complete the
second required
form:
“Department
Faculty Sign Off 2
of 2: Confirm
Department
Evaluation
Review” to
indicate that you
have read the final
version of the
Department letter.

Sign off too early/late? Discrepancies in date/time stamps should be communicated to the EC Chair and explained in
the Department Procedures Statement (include specification of whether procedures were followed).

That’s it - thanks!
By completing these forms at the appropriate times you are helping to ensure and document that required procedures
were followed.