Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
Friday, December 7, 2012
Summary:

Working Session of the Faculty Senate, which included: motions to continue pilot student
course evaluation survey for fall 2012, a CAP resolution to establish a Minor in Applied
Mathematics, and a motion authorizing the Senate Executive Committee to draft a resolution
reflecting our concerns about the resource allocation tool to present before the University
Senate in January 2013, all of which were approved)

Senators Presents: Jacob Heller (Chair, presiding), Fernando Nieto (Vice Chair), Duncan Quarless
(Secretary/Treasurer/C&P, recording), Kathie Greenberg (At-Large), Costas Hadcharalambous (At-Large),
Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large/Biology), Kathleen Velsor (At-Large), Alonso McCollum (Professional),
Ana Martinez (Professional), Nick Savva (Student Gov’t. Assoc.), Lysa Carre (Student Govt. Assoc.), Curt
Frehs (Library), Shalei Simms (Management & Finance), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Amara
Graf (English), Cristina Notaro (History & Philosophy), Frank Sanacory (Math/CIS), Jesse Fernandez (Modern
Languages), Lawrence Krause (PEL), Kerwin Kaye (Sociology), Jingyi Song (ARPT Committee), Alireza
Ebrahimi (TLC Committee), Cary Lange (CAP Committee).
Senators Absent: Minna Barrett (University Senator), Jermaine Archer (At-Large Rep. to Exec. Committee,
American Studies), Marc Kettler (Professional), Dana Fowler (Student Govt. Assoc.), Laura Anker (First Year
Experience), Xavier Marechaux (Adolescence Education), vacant (Exceptional Education), vacant
(Psychology), Robert Geror/Patty Harris (Visual Arts),
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: All of the non-voting members of the Senate were not in
attendance.
Visitors Present: Thomas O. Murphy (Director of Sponsored Programs), Lan Zhao (Chair, Mathematics,
Computers & Information Science), Rollie O. Buchanan (Dean of Students), Rafat Sada (EOP), Dinorah
Martinez (recording).
I. Call to Order: 12:31 pm
II. Minutes
-

Fernando Nieto moved to approve the minutes, as written,
Kerwin Kaye seconded the motion
– motion approved by acclamation

III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report (Jacob Heller)
-

Presentation by E. Bever on new student survey (evaluation tool) – online tool
Slightly more than 50% of summer program students responded to this pilot (created to reproduce the
old student evaluation tool – 7 question survey). Right now may have compatibility glitches in linking
the communications between MyOldwestbury and Banner.

(Discussion included concerns about the current pilot data – validity, use, and dissemination. Senate agreed that
current data during this pilot period will be used only to inform the work of the ad hoc committee – limited to
the formative and evaluative review of the ad hoc committee to assess this survey tool)
-

Manya Mascareno moved to authorize the continuation of the pilot for this semester (fall 2012)
for the purpose of collecting additional data that the ad hoc committee on student evaluation will
use as part of its evaluative/formative process to develop the tool.
Kerwin Kaye seconded the motion
– motion carried by oral majority

-

Parking Update
University Police will paint yellow strips on the walkways and more clearly label spaces where parking
should not occur; absent compelling evidence of serious problems, the policy of equal access to parking

on a first-come, first-serve basis will continue.
-

RABPC (next meeting has not yet been scheduled)
Len Davis has committed to delivering the entire budget to Jacob for dissemination to the members of
the RABPC; Nothing further to report on actions by the RABPC. Len Davis’s report at College Counsel
Meeting – projection on the impending implementation of the New Resource Allocation tool – campus
will be up by $1M year 1, up by $1.5 M year 2, up by $2.6M year 3 (look for further update and
verification of this information).

-

Minna Barrett and Jacob Heller will attend the University Faculty Senate plenary at SUNY Oneonta,
January 24-26, 2013.

IV. President’s Report (President Butts was scheduled to attend the White House Holiday Reception)
V. Provost’s Report (Ron Welton conveyed the absence of anything of particular significance to report)
VI. Committee and Other Reports
-

CAP Resolution for the Creation of an Applied Mathematics Minor
- approved by acclamation.

VII. Old Business
-

Fernando Nieto moved to authorize the faculty senate executive committee to draft resolution on
behalf of our faculty senate to respond to resource allocation tool based upon concerns raised at
previous faculty senate meeting (November 19, 2013 faculty senate meeting). The drafted
resolution will be brought to the University Senate plenary in January 2013
Amara Graf seconded the motion
- motion passed by acclamation.

VIII. New Business
-

Tom Murphy reminded the Senate that Faculty Development Grant application are due on
January 3.

-

Alireza Ebrahimi announced the TLRC’s Annual Conference, April 26th , 2013.

-

Alireza Ebrahimi raised the issue of contingent plans for students with academic and social
concerns in the aftermath of the events of this semester

-

Rollie Buchanan noted that the effects of Hurricane Sandy may have been somewhat latent –
peaking after Thanksgiving. Faculty are asked to sympathetically engage students (concerning
academic options and social needs) and direct them accordingly to support services as necessary
(Counseling Center) – particularly as finals week is approaching.

-

Amara Graf and Jacob Heller offered to organize an informal social gathering of new faculty.

IX. Adjournment: 2:03 pm.