Proctorio Faculty Guide
INSTRUCTIONS
Requirements must be on Syllabus: computer with mic, webcam, Chrome Browser
Fellow faculty willing to help you
Gary Levanti, Eric Schwartz, Jennie D'Ambroise
Enable It
•
•
•
•
•
•

Go to the course on Blackboard and select Customization -> Tool Availability.
Scroll down, select the checkmarks for Secure Exam Proctor, click submit.
Recommended: Make a new content area called “Take Exam HERE”.
Go to the new content area and select Build Content -> Secure Exam Proctor, and
when the tool options display name it “Secure Exam Proctor” and click Submit.
The Secure Exam Proctor helmet link should now appear in your content area.
Students will mostly not interact with this link except to initially install the
Proctorio Chrome Browser Extension.

Use It
•
•
•
•
•
•

Create a new test in Blackboard. Name your exam something helpful like “Exam 2,
click here to start exam”.
Insert the new test into your “Take Exam HERE” content area.
Go to Edit Test Options and turn on the Remote Proctoring option towards the
bottom; click the Remote Proctoring checkbox then the options will be available.
Select test options as desired: record video, verify desktop, etc..
Your exam will now have the “(Remotely Proctored)” indicator in the test name.
If you have any trouble, try restarting the Proctorio Chrome Browser Extension and
use the Proctorio Support Chat if needed.
NOTE: The live chat feature is the #1 problem solver for students!

Please refer students to the live chat at https://proctorio.com/support for any
problems during the exam session. Chat will help quickly and efficiently.
Instruct Students
•
•
•

Students need to install the Proctorio Chrome Browser Extension.
Students can ask for help before or during exams using the Proctorio Support Chat.
Give students options for exam times when the instructor will be responsive and
ready to reply via email. Effective and efficient communication during exam
times reduces student anxiety; be available for incoming questions in real
time during the exam timeslots.

Common Student Problems
•
•
•

If the exam does not appear, restart the Proctorio Chrome Extension.
If the student tries to click the “share” screen button, they must first click the screen
picture to select their screen and then they can click the “share” button.
If connection issues are persistent for a student, work with them to find an
appropriate solution such as rescheduling their exam on campus or granting a few
extra minutes using Blackboard settings. After the first proctored assignment,
issues are usually identified and resolved.

Faculty Recommendations
•

•
•

•

•

•
•

•

Create a 5 minute length “test exam” so students have experience starting
Proctorio before the real exam period begins. Proctorio is easy to use, but
familiarizing students with the software in advance does reduce anxiety.
Use the “random block” feature when building exams in Blackboard, so that each
student has a slightly different version of a problem.
Write “authentic problems” that refer to your unique class structure, making it
harder for students to obtain the answer from an outside source. A resource
regarding course design is available, see handout: “Discouraging Plagiarism through
Assignment Design: Some Strategies” from the Writing Center.
Remember that setting the stage for academic honesty goes far beyond just the exam
environment. Emphasize unique contributions that students must make to your class
every week and outline expectations for honesty on all assignments. The exam should
not be the first time the student is acclimated to honesty expectations.
Create an environment of trust with students. Do not use eye movements or dogs barking
in the background as a basis to question student’s exam work. Evaluate the work
submitted by students on their own merits. Assess the originality and honesty of
submitted work in accordance with best practices within your discipline.
Emphasize fairness for all when administering exams. Insist that all students take
the exam under the same conditions in the spirit of equity.
When students encounter problems, suggest an immediate and reasonable solution
for them. Examples include helping students to make an appointment on campus,
using Blackboard settings to allow reentry into the exam when appropriate, and
being responsive in real time to ease student’s questions and pr oblems.
Require on-camera activities during regular class and learn the faces/names of your
students. The exam session should not be the first on-camera activity. Build screen
sharing into group work in class so students are acclimated to appropriate classrelated usage of their devices including being present, accountable, responsive.

BENEFITS OF PROCTORIO
•

Flexible and equitable exam scheduling. Instructors have the option of providing
multiple exam time windows to help accommodate student schedules. Students can
choose their exam time from the slots provided by the instructor. All time slots
offered will still have the same level of proctoring required so that the exam
environment is fair and equitable for all students.

•

•

•

•

•

Distraction-free environment. Students are uninterrupted during the exam
period. For example, students can talk out loud to themselves to work out a
problem without disturbing other students.
Privacy. The instructor is the only person who can see students’ exam session.
Students cannot see other students during an exam session. Proctorio staff also
cannot see students’ exam sessions. Using Proctorio, the level of access to a
student’s exam session is more restricted when compared to both an in-person
exam or a zoom session. Remember that FERPA guidelines protect student info that
is gathered by instructors for the purposes of course administration.
Fairness. In a zoom environment, if multiple students are not following exam
protocols simultaneously then the exam environment is going to be skewed and
unfair for those students who are indeed following the exam rules honestly.
Proctorio helps the instructor to manage dozens of students simultaneously
resulting in a more equitable environment that is applied equally to all students.
Ease of use. The technical requirements are very minimal. Students who cannot
satisfy the requirements of the Chrome browser extension can borrow a computer
just for the exam period, make an arrangement at a local library just for the exam
period, or they can go to a campus computer lab for the exam period. Note: most
students prefer the former two options rather than going to campus. To arrange a
campus appointment for an exam, email servicedesk@oldwestbury.edu, your
Dean, and the Provost. The Dean and Provost will “ok” the visit and
servicedesk@oldwestbury.edu will arrange the room and set up the technical
accommodations. Be sure to include in your message: using Proctorio, which
devices required (webcam, mic, Chrome), and exam duration. Advance notice
of 5 business days is appreciated when possible.
Special accommodations & proctoring time. For example, suppose one student
gets extra time and a second student cannot take the exam until after they get home
from work. Under these conditions, only 2 students needing perfectly reasonable
accommodations would require the instructor to personally zoom proctor up to 2 or
3 times a regular class session in a single day. Most classes have more variation
than just 2 students needing special accommodations. Using Proctorio the
instructor can better manage dozens of students so that they all have the same exam
environment regardless of any/all special accommodations needed.

DOWNSIDES OF PROCTORIO
The downsides are very similar to an in-person exam. Students still have the ability to
access their phones or secondary devices away from the view of the exam session.
Students and instructors must also plan in advance for the exam and anticipate using
Proctorio during the exam session. Instructors looking to simulate an in-person exam as
closely as possible in a remote setting may view these “downsides” as somewhat of a benefit
since similar or analogous downsides are true in-person.

MYTHS ABOUT PROCTORIO
•

•

•

•

Proctorio does not prevent cheating. In-person exams also have their fair share
of academic dishonesty. However, having a “presence in the room” with Proctorio is
the closest thing to an in-person exam remotely. Preventing academic dishonesty
should be a holistic affair above and beyond the exam period: communicate well,
establish great rapport with students, design authentic assignments, get to know
your students individually, etc.. These strategies matter just as much as creating an
equitable exam environment. Don’t wait until the exam time to set honesty
standards. Refer to handout entitled “Discouraging Plagiarism through Assignment
Design: Some Strategies” from the Writing Center for additional assignment design
strategies.
Proctorio does not catch cheating. Academic dishonesty is not determined by
where a student looks or how they act. Just like an in-person exam, academic
dishonesty is determined by the materials the student hands in for the exam.
Proctorio does not flag or determine cheating. Proctorio has flagging features
that the instructor can choose to ignore or use at their discretion. The instructor
(not Proctorio) has full control over whether and in what manner any/all flags are
used. Flags are not activated during the exam session, only after the exam session is
finished. Flags can be changed at any time, even after the exam, if the instructor
chooses to use them at all. If an instructor does not find any flags to be important
they can make all flags “low priority” and also ignore them. Academic dishonesty is
determined by the materials the student hands in for the assignment.
Proctorio does not access the exam session video. The instructor is the only
person who can access the exam session video. Not even Proctorio staff has access.

REASSURING STUDENTS, EXAMPLE SCENARIOS
•

STUDENT CONCERN: “I’m afraid my pet or family will alert a flag in Proctorio and I
will be falsely accused of cheating.”
o INSTRUCTOR RESPONSE: “No need to worry. As the instructor, I am the
only person who has access to the session. Rest assured I will ignore any
accidental noises like this!” Make sure the student understands that you, the
instructor, has full authority regarding the exam session and you are the only
person who can see the exam session details. Ask the student if they will be
able to arrange a distraction-free environment, offer the student different
time slots for the exam that may help them, and encourage the student to set
up a good environment so they can focus during the exam. Make sure the
student understands that you want to help them do their absolute best on the
exam!

•

•

•

STUDENT CONCERN: “I’m afraid I will look the wrong way or talk to myself and be
falsely accused of cheating.”
o INSTRUCTOR RESPONSE: “No need to worry. As the instructor I have sole
and complete control over the exam sessions. Actually one of the benefits of
Proctorio is you can talk about a problem out loud to yourself and never
worry about disturbing other students. Rest assured talking to yourself or
looking anywhere will have no effect on your exam grading. Your exam will
only be graded based on the work you hand in for the exam.”. Make sure the
student understands that you support them having their own mental space to
work.
STUDENT CONCERN: “My computer is broken.” or “Can I do the exam on an ipad?”
o INSTRUCTOR RESPONSE: “In order to effectively access class material, live
office hours, and live class sessions, it is expected that students have a
working computer. Let’s discuss how you will be accessing all the
assignments in this class given your available devices. As far as the exam is
concerned you should make special arrangements such as borrowing a
computer for the exam session or reserving a space at your local library in
advance of the exam. If none of these are possible, I as the instructor can
help you to make an appointment on campus – let me know and I will make
the arrangements for you!” Make sure students understand that using a
computer for college material is not about “monitoring them” for exams!
Using a computer is essential and the best practice for college level material,
and it is expected that they will find a way to meet course requirements.
Using a computer will help the student contact help, get tutoring, meet with
the instructor, view assignments, work with their peers, and more.
STUDENT CONCERN: “I’m concerned that Proctorio is taking personal browsing
data from my computer.”
o INSTRUCTOR RESPONSE: “Proctorio is passive and just captures the screen
during the exam session. Make sure you have all other applications and tabs
closed before starting the exam session. It's very similar to clearing your
desk for an in-person exam, and similar when the instructor can see your
desk when you take an exam in person. “. Part of the reason the campus
chose Proctorio rather than another proctoring solution is because Proctorio
has no power to control students‘ computers and Proctorio staff never sees
the exam session (nor anyone besides the instructor). Rest assured no
browsing history is accessed. Instructors can also suggest that students
install Proctorio just for the exam session only, and then uninstall it after the
exam is finished, if the student prefers.