STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, December 3, 2004

12:30-2:30 p.m.

In Attendance:
Senate Executive Committee: C. Sawyer, M. Dolan, R. Mukherji, J. Edelson.
Ex Officio: L. Cox, M. Rankin, M. Marquez Bell, L. Davis, R. Gonzalez, R. Welton.
Senators: I. Ahmed, E. Bever, C. Cocca, M. Colaneri, N. Dorata, A. Ebrahimi, M. Foglino, C. Hobson,
M. Keefe, H. Lewittes, A. Martinez, M. Metlay, L. Rader, G. Snedeker, K. Velsor, L. Walsh.
Visitors: B. Binder, L. Blackstone, J. Conforti, M. Jones, M. Keizer, W. Lupardo, S. O’Connor, P.
O’Sullivan, D. Quarless, N. Sacks, G. Seidman, B. Serrano, M. Veve, K. Wood.

I,
a.

°

Minutes:
Amendments:

SGA Representative M. Foglino needs to be listed as present for the 10-29-04

meeting.
°
On p. 3, question #3, T. Delgiudice provided information on the role of the State
Construction Fund in holding up resources for work on Academic Village.

b.
IL.

Minutes approved as amended.
Chair’s Report: (appended)

Ill.

President’s Report:

The President did not attend. He was initially expected to

arrive late but M. Rankin subsequently reported that he was caught up in a meeting about
the Teacher Education Program.

IV.

V.

Academic Vice President’s Report: Dr. Cox handed out amended versions of
his timeline and committee structure for preparation of the Mission Review Guidance
document (Attached.) He then stated that he had nothing further to report.
University Senator’s Report:

M. Dolan reported on the highlights of the

Plenary Session of the University Faculty Senate (UFS) held at the Maritime campus,
October 28-30.

a.

The resolution on Faculty participation in Mission Review (appended to previous

minutes) was passed by the Senate at the Plenary.
Another resolution allowing site visits to the campus or place of work of
b.

Presidential candidates was passed by the Senate, and has been forwarded to the Office of
the Chancellor for approval.
G
In his presentation to the Senate, the Chancellor stated his support for faculty

governance. There are numerous examples of his support for the work of the faculty: for
example, The Task Force on Rational Fiscal Policy had worked to develop a policy for

tuition and other fiscal issues of the State University. The Chancellor has embraced their

recommendations, and he has presented the policy to the Legislature even though the

Board of Trustee has yet to endorse it. Further, the Chancellor has supported the form of

Gen Ed developed by the UFS, again even though it departed significantly from the

resolution passed by the Board of Trustees. M. Dolan expressed the hope that this respect
for faculty governance would be extended to campuses by campus administration.
d.
System Administration believes that there are probably going to further cuts in the

University budget, and is working to develop a new budget allocation process that will

be more equitable in the context of a decreasing budget than the one that has been used in

the past. The new budget allocation has budget categories that will make it easier for

System Administration to make more effective appeals for budget appropriations to the
Legislature than they have been able to make in the past.

VI.

a.

Committee Reports:

Teaching for Learning Center

(A. Ebrahimi, Committee Chair.

Program for

2004-05 is attached)
About 15 people attended ARPT presentation, and 20 people attended Visiting Scholar
presentation.

In his report, A. Ebrahimi mentioned a conference where other Directors of SUNY
campus TLC’s presented their programs.

Q. Mukherji asked if there could be a presentation about some of the other programs.
Ebrahimi agreed.

A.

Faculty were asked to forward questions about Blackboard. They will be addressed at the

upcoming Blackboard presentation.
M. Dolan suggested that TLC might look to Conversations in the Disciplines to support
some of the programming for TLC.
b.
Academic Standing Committee (D. Quarless, Chair.)
ASC handled about 76 cases this year. Several issues came up during the hearings that
need to be addressed by Academic Policy Committee and Registrars Office. Some of
them are:
°
When students fail a pre-req. course, they are still able register for the upper level
coursed. We need to fix this.
°
High course loads are often the reason why students get into academic trouble, but

when students are re-instated after a year, they do not lower their course loads, in fact

they often increase them to make up for time that they feel that they have lost!
°
Students can register for summer courses without advisement, and they see
summer as a free pass.
e
Students often force themselves to take more credits than they can handle because

of Financial Aid issues, but they should be reminded that if they repeatedly fail courses,

TAP will not continue to pay for the courses.
Q: (M. Metlay) Is there a limit to the number of times that students can re-take the
courses in their major?
A: (R.Welton) Students can only receive financial aid for retaking a course if they fail or
getaD.

Q: (M. Metlay) Can a Dept say that a student cannot take a course reqd. for the major
more than twice?
A: (R. Welton) Yes, but it would be very difficult to enforce.

Q: (L.Walsh) Why can’t students be restricted from taking too many credits?
A: (D. Quarless) ASC only holds hearings on suspended students. This is an issue for
APC. There has been one meeting of the APC committee, but we have been in touch by
email.

M. Marquez Bell: SED has requirements that are enforced through Financial Aid.
Maybe there should be ongoing discussions between ASC, APC, and advisors.

H. Lewittes: CAAT advising files should be made available to faculty. When students
come for advising and ask for overloads, the information in files could be useful for

faculty to have.

Senate Chair inquired whether the ASC had held any meetings during the semester as a
committee. D. Quarless replied that they had had one meeting and corresponded by email.

c.

Scheduling Committee:

The ad-hoc schedule committee chaired by M. Metlay

included A. Barbera, J. Conforti, and H. Lewittes. Senate Chair commended them for
their prompt work in submitting a course schedule for the Senate’s consideration at this
meeting, to take effect as of Fall 2005.

Proposal is to have a common hour at the same time for one hour every day; start time for
classes every day (except Friday) would be 8:30.
M. Frisken:

LIRR does not have a train that would easily fit that schedule.

They arrive

at either at 6:45 or 8:26, neither of which would be convenient for students to make 8:30
classes.
M. Metlay: People who want to do a 3 day schedule could do MWF or TuThF schedule,
and could take the afternoons which have lowest utilization times.
J. Edelson: By the time students and faculty get out of class and to the meeting it is going
to be 1:10. Why not make the afternoon classes at 1:10 to accommodate that?
E. Bever: Why not keep the Friday start time the same as the other days?
M. Foglino: Students will not like this. This cuts down on the amount of time that they
will have for events. Also, the lines in the Panthers Den will be horrific!
H. Lewittes: Perhaps we should suggest to the Panthers Den that they should hire more
servers?

N. Sacks: Most events that could meet more regularly could be accommodated in the 50
mins.
M. Metlay: If we started the afternoon at 1:10, the last class would end at 10:10 rather
than 10:00 and that really does matter. [Several faculty who teach evening classes
concurred.]

M. Metlay:

Could we vote on the amended motion, everything the same as schedule

presented, only change would be that on all days of the week, including Friday, with
classes starting at 8:30?

Vote to accept amended schedule: 16 in favor; 2 opposed; 2 abstentions.
thus accepted would take effect in Fall 2005.]

VII.
a.

[Schedule

Old Business:
N. Sacks: Jermaine Camp Scholarship Committee (K. Velsor, N. Sacks, A.

Frisken) met about memorial for Jermaine. She was an especial student who died during

the Islandia student retreat.

She was a natural leader, and thought she faced a lot of

adversity; she did a lot for people. She volunteered for many major events for First Year
students. She was an Orientation Leader, R.A. in the dorm, so on. We propose to
establish a scholarship fund for First Year Students in her name.
Motion: That The Jermaine Camp Scholarship for First Year Students be established by
the Faculty Senate. Contributions to this scholarship fund will be solicited from Faculty
Senate members as well as the entire Old Westbury Community, including alumni.
Motion to establish scholarship fund passed unanimously.

VIII.

°

General Education Assessment Review: H. Lewittes (summary attached)
OW is seriously considering an externally referenced test for the assessment of

Math and Writing; and

°
because of our transfer student body, we need to do pre-and post-tests.
°
The General Education committee has put particular emphasis on programmatic
changes as a function of assessment.
R. Mukherji: This discussion should really be put on the record because the model of
assessment will have long term impact on the curriculum as well as serious budgetary

impacts.

H. Lewittes and C. Sawyer:

Yes, this topic is scheduled to be discussed in greater detail

at a subsequent meeting of the Senate.

IX.

Mission Review II: E. Bever

Many of the items detailed by Chair that were not included in latest Guidance document

are non-contentious. We should send a note to AVP is there are other such issues that
need to be taken care of. (Attached to these minutes are notes of some of these omissions

and changes from M. Frisken)
Q. M. Keizer:
campus?
L. Cox:

Will faculty get copies of the Guidance Document before it leaves

The Guidance document is the President’s document, but I will check with

President Butts and get back to you.

M. Keizer: Does the Guidance document give enough weight to the issue of attrition?
C. Sawyer: yes, there is a clear statement about that issue.
M. Keizer: Yes, but is there a plan to change this awful graduation rate?

E. Bever: We did try to emphasize this, but we have to stay within the framework of the
questions that were asked.

M. Dolan: There are a number of issues that are outside the purview of the Guidance
Document such as conditions in AV, Capital Plan, etc.

In terms of facilities, many

buildings are not ADA compliant.’
L. Davis: Subcommittee of the BPC has been looking at AV, and there is a lot of action
in this issue.
C. Sawyer: The AV is not ADA compliant, per the Campus Capital Plan..
L. Davis: Bill Kimmins can tell you whether or not that is true. There are different data
about this, and we are looking at this.
M. Foglino: In item 17 of Guidance document, AV is never mentioned.
though this issue is being swept aside.

It fells as

E. Bever: There are problems in other buildings that have problems too, that is why AV

does not have stronger wording
C. Sawyer: But AV is where the majority of the faculty and students spend most of their
time!

M. Rankin: There is issue of project sequencing: HVAC system etc. needs to go through
SEMPRA, and you will see the outcomes soon.

L. Davis: AV is interspersed throughout the plan. If you attended BPC meetings you

would see that AV is prominent in planning, upkeep, facades, etc.
M. Dolan: Facades are problematic...... it was rejected twice and yet this facade issue is
mentioned prominently.
M. Keizer: Resources should be mobilized rapidly for AV. It is a disgrace. You
apologize every day to your students for the conditions in the classrooms.
L. Blackstone: As a new faculty member with experience on other campuses, I have
never seen conditions like these in the AV.
M. Rankin: When [M. Keizer] says, “you apologize,” what does he mean? Who
apologizes? Who is “you”? [A number of faculty members raise their hands.]
L.Davis: Improvement of image is one of the three major objectives for the College.
Better facades will improve the image.

M. Foglino: What image? I take students on tours of the campus, and I was told

specifically by Admissions not to take them to the AV. This is false advertising!
L. Davis: There are more projects ongoing now than before 1999. Construction Funds
take time. There are issues being addressed. I welcome you BPC meetings and you will
see that there are projects ongoing.

M. Rankin: I have asked the Chancellor to allow time to meet the Faculty. He will be
going on a campus tour. So e-mail me and let me know which particular areas you want

him to see. Mary D’ Antonio has taken me on tours and I have seen the things that you
are talking about. Projects take time. It took us two years to get a critical project started!
I want Chancellor to see things so that the President can say that this cannot continue.
Teacher Education Motion: B. Serrano
I want the Senate to endorse the UFS Resolution on Academic Reorganization and put
corresponding guidelines in place in the Faculty Bylaws. I don’t have an actual proposal.
A State Education Department visitor was surprised to hear about the demise of the
English department. Also NCATE wants to know the number of bodies that decided the

merger of English, and now OW is the only campus without an English Department.
This is a major problem with NCATE..
L. Cox:

OW is one of the only campuses without an English Department, but this is by

choice. We are an interdisciplinary campus.
M. Foglino:

Could there be student representation on the committee that examines

academic re-organization?

L. Walsh: Executive Committee should look into CAP and see if CAP could deliberate
on academic re-organization.
Meeting was adjourned at 3:00 pm