Final Approved September 2019

Institutional Learning Outcomes Joint Task Force
aka
LEAP Implementation Mapping Committee Annual Report 2019

In January 2019, Jacob Heller, Asst. VP of Academic Affairs for Institutional Research and
Assessment, presented a Resolution at Faculty Senate to form a Committee that would begin
mapping the Old Westbury curriculum to LEAP student learning outcomes. A Resolution passed
through Faculty Senate in April 2016 affirming Old Westbury’s desire to adopt LEAP in a
manner suitable to the mission of the college.
The Resolution called for forming a Committee consisting of:
• The Chair of the Liberal Education Committee,
• The Chair of the Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee,
• The Faculty Senate Chair (or designee),
• Two at-large members of the Faculty representing different disciplines,
• The Director of Academic Assessment,
• The Asst. VP of Academic Affairs for Institutional Research and Assessment; and further
This Committee was formed and included Patty Harris, Frank Sanacory, Andrew Mattson,
Ashlee Lien, Ryoko Yamamoto, Hedva Lewittes, and Jacob Heller, respective of the titles listed
above. The Committee met on 2/26, 4/10, and 4/24. Ashlee Lien and Ryoko Yamamoto served
as ex-officio members present at meetings on 4/10 and 4/24. At the first meeting, Patty Harris
was elected Chair.
In February the Committee discussed how to begin the process of mapping the Old Westbury
curriculum to LEAP student learning outcomes. Questions arose as to whether Applied Learning
and Civic Engagement ought to be separate areas of Assessment. The Committee decided to map
the curriculum before adding representatives to the Liberal Education Committee.
As Chair of the LEC, P. Harris suggested that domain reps could map their existing learning
outcomes to LEAP outcomes. The Committee discussed how this initial mapping ought to be
broad in scope showing where gaps may exist. The Committee agrees to commence this work by
having LEC domain reps work on the mapping. Jacob Heller creates a chart to map this
“crosswalk.”
The work of the initial mapping is completed by LEC domain reps before the next meeting of the
ILOJTF Committee on 4/10/19. Several issues come to light as a result of this mapping. The map
shows the “crosswalk” between domain learning outcomes and LEAP learning outcomes.
- There may be a gap between satisfying domain learning outcomes and LEAP learning
outcomes in cases where a course may satisfy some of the content of the LEAP LO’s
but not all.
- It would benefit the College to review and possibly expand how domains are being
defined.
- In some cases the LEAP learning outcomes rely on a broad conceptual definition of a
skill rather than knowledge of a specific disciplinary area.

Final Approved September 2019

-

Institutional learning outcomes need to connect to program learning outcomes
A clear articulation of the faculty’s goals, and our process, is important for Middle
States.

There was consensus that the Committee’s products should include:
The “crosswalk” map completed by the LEC mapping LEAP and Old Westbury learning
outcomes.
A recommendation for the LEC to improve, strengthen, and more clearly define specific
domains beginning in Fall 2019.
The recommendation to include upper-division courses within OW institutional learning
outcomes as appropriate.
The 3rd meeting of the ILOJTF took place on 4/24/19. At this meeting the SUNY Green Paper
was discussed. The written response to this Green Paper was discussed as well. (appendix) Some
topics included:
Whether the “crosswalk” mapping means that a course may be included in a LEAP ILO
or must be included. Further definition of alignment is needed.
The LEC needs to identify holes in Old Westbury’s institutional learning outcomes. Do
program-level learning outcomes address some of these gaps?

The work of defining student learning outcomes, with alignment to LEAP, will continue.

Circulated September 2019 and approved [ ]