STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, November 12, 2004
12:30 — 2:30 p.m.
In Attendance:
Senate Executive Committee:

Minutes
C. Sawyer, J. Edelson, A. Barbera.

Ex Officio: C. Butts, M. Rankin, L. Cox, R. Gonzalez, R. Welton, M. Bell.

Senators: J. Ahmed, E. Bever, M. Colaneri, T. Del Giudice, A. Ebrahimi, M. Foglino, C.
Franco, A. Frisken, C. Hobson, S. Kaufmann, M. Keefe, H. Lewittes, A. Martinez, L.
Rader, G. Snedeker, K. Velsor, L. Walsh, L. Zhao.
Visitors: L. Anker, E. Gomez-Nieto, M. Keizer, J. Llana, W. Lupardo, P. O’Sullivan, N.
Sacks, B. Serrano, J. Weiss.

Minutes: Corrections to minutes of 10/29
1. p. 3 — 12 faculty members; Masters program for Special Education

2. p. 4 — eliminate extra “in fact”; 1 faculty member

3. p. 6— under S. O’Connor: “faculty should be”
under A. Barbera: “committee took comments and put out”
under R. Mukherji: eliminate extra “what we”
Minutes approved as corrected.

Chair’s Report:

e

e
e
e

Since Oct. 28" we have not had a Faculty Senate secretary. An e-mail was sent to
the administration re: the importance and urgency of a replacement.
R. Mukherji and M. Dolan are in Albany on University Senate business today
The Exec. Committee met on Oct. 29" and Nov. 8" to review Mission Review II

and other issues. They met with the AVP on Nov. 1* to discuss Mission Review

Il.
The EC met with Dr. Butts on Nov. 3” and discussed the following:
1. Two OW faculty resolutions re: lack of air conditioning this past summer and
the ARPT case.

2. Two University Senate resolutions re: faculty governance and involvement in

reorganization.

3. Mission Review II deadline was moved from Nov. 10" to Dec. 15". Dr. Butts

requested that the Executive Committee submit to him names of faculty members

who can finalize the Mission Review II document, and that we indicate to him the

process by which that is to be done. The Executive Committee has drawn up a list of
candidates but wishes to put this matter to the Senate, as indicated on the agenda for
today’s meeting. The Chair urges the Senate, in its deliberation of the issue, to
consider whether it is worth delegating faculty to do more work on this document.

4.

Slate of faculty for BPC. The President requested that the Senate present him
with an expanded slate, including the name of a faculty member of BPC who
wishes to continue. Vote on this matter is on today’s agenda.

The Chair read portions of a cover letter detailing the Executive Committee’s
understanding of the process of drafting Mission Review II. This letter will be
attached to the minutes.

On Nov. 10", the Chair attended a meeting with the College Council. Three

members were present and they discussed encouraging the faculty to go for grants
and external funding.
Nov. 10" the Chair, with M. Dolan (University Senator) attended an SGA
meeting. The SGA President reported that the SUNY Student Assembly recognized
the loss of Jermaine Camp. The Chair suggested the Faculty Senate might make a
proposal.

N. Sacks, K. Velsor, and A. Frisken, volunteered.

Announcement: The SUNY Chancellor will be on campus on December 10.

Responding to the Chair’s report, M. Rankin clarified the procedure for submitting P1
and P2 forms for filling the Senate secretary position. .
Dr. Butts’ Report:

e

He is pleased to report that OW’s standing has gone up considerably over the last

©

He met with Chancellor King and C. Goldstein this morning along with business
leaders in this region of the state. They are planning a NYS partnership and
discussed linkages between SUNY and businesses.
He thanked all the people who worked on the five year review and thanked all
who sent him well wishes for his recovery.

e

e

several years.

In regard to the resolution on air conditioners, he requests the faculty to submit a

°

resolution to set up a scholarship fund equal to the costs of the air conditioners
that secretaries purchased with their own funds. L. Davis will decide how to set
up the scholarship.
In regard to the resolution on the reappointment of J. Weiss, after much re-reading
of the ARPT recommendations, his decision stands. He appreciates the concern
of the Faculty Senate; however confidentiality is important. He believes that
ARPT’s comments support his decision.

e

Mission Review II: After discussion with the Faculty Senate Exec. Comm., the

Provost confirmed the Dec. 15" date. He/we thought we could make it before and
the Provost made it 11/15; however, now we have 12/15 at the request of the

faculty. He needs to know the process we can live with and the names of faculty
to be responsible for the coordination of the document with the administration.
He understands that faculty were involved but weren’t endorsed by the Senate; so
now please submit the names of coordinators.
e The 2000 Strategic Plan was accepted by SUNY in a ceremony in the Recital
Hall. Subsequently, it has been updated annually. A budget was submitted but it
. was too aggressive and there were budget cuts. MRII, MOU, and Middle States
"Review are all documents re: where we’re going. A packet has been prepared and

e

e

was mailed to the Senate Chair yesterday. We need one document to refer to,
hopefully.
General Ed. Review. This is a difficult job and H. Lewittes is doing a fine job.
We need to respond by Nov. 30". H. Lewittes has requested a Dec. date, but
Albany denied that request. We should do what we can do and he’II take care of
it. If we need extra time to make an appropriate document, do so.
Inorder for the College to grow, he plans to stay on course re: School Structure
for Business, Liberal Arts, and Teacher Education.

We should not forget the

importance of implementing Graduate programs. Presently the Business School

e
©

has 20 enrolled in their Graduate program.

Budget challenges remain. R. Brown left and M. Kineen has taken over this

department.
He would like to have more than five names on the slate of faculty candidates for

the BPC.

Questions:

1.

2.
3.

4.

5.

E. Bever asked when he expected the graduate program in TE. The

President had hoped for 9/05, but that’s not possible now. This program is
important to the College, our image, and the budget. Now we’re involved
in NCATE. E. Bever stated that MRII doesn’t seem to be cohesive. The
President replied once we get the names for faculty coordinators of the
final initiative of MRII, then he’s hopeful things will come together as

well as NCATE.

C. Hobson discussed the process of the administration in considering the
reappointment file. The President responded that his decision stands.
E. Bever asked is the renovation of the Academic Village being held up
because of administrative disputes. The President responded the SUNY
Construction Fund is holding up funds of 6-7 million dollars for the
project, until it can be determined whether SUNY Central or the College
will manage the project. This is the first thing on the agenda for BPC.
The roof leaks will be done first. The President stated these projects
should be left to the campus; however, because of previous experiences
such as the pool which is losing 18,000 gallons of water per night, he
finally got approval.
T. Delguice indicated there are more people who wish to serve on BPC
who have had extensive experience. The President indicated he wants
more names for the BPC and we should not ignore people who have
served well who wish to continue to serve.
SGA representative expressed concern for keeping class size small if we
grow to over 5,000 students. The President indicated even when we were
over 4,000 students, the class size was small.

What about the dean

structure? Will that reduce the number of faculty? The President
responded that a introducing deans will not cause faculty reductions. The
ideal dean commands the respect of his/ her department; is politically
savvy; a good dresser, and takes initiative to get funds for the department,
etc.

Dr. Cox’s Report:

e

Mission Review II: He thanked the faculty and the Faculty Senate for their
remarks and edits to the document. This document is a guidance document to

help us with the Strategic Plan, rather than a planning document per se. There
were eight committees, each of which had representation from faculty, staff, and
students.

Although he did not work with each subcommittee, he did receive their

work. In attempting to determine the proper process and procedure to follow to
ensure appropriate faculty Senate governance process, he searched the faculty
bylaws and found no such process, but a general policy of minimal requirements
of consultation, which he feels were followed in good faith. Since this informal

process appears to be unsatisfying, he is recommending the following:

The Faculty Senate should provide appropriate guidelines for further

review of the document.

The Senate should delineate a process for the MRII document and any

other documents requiring governance input.

He would like to work in conjunction with the Exec. Committee to

determine the new review schedule deadlines, and the process by which MRII and
other similar documents become part of the governance process.
He indicated that his office was preparing an updated version of the
timeline for MR II preparation and a list of committee members, which should be
send out to all faculty members with the agenda for the next meeting. [These
documents were subsequently received, but the Senate Chair is requesting revisions

before they are circulated. One contested point is that the AVP’s revised timeline

states that the team of faculty coordinators was formed “‘at the insistence of faculty,”

which stands in contradiction to the proceedings of the Senate and the record here.]
e
e

General Education Assessment Review Group (GEAR): H. Lewittes is in
charge and there have been some modifications.
He received an e-mail re: faculty who have been named in the 2004 edition of

e

Hillery, Marie Metlay, and Duncan Quarless.
Stony Brook has established an MBA with 52 students.

Who's

Who Among America’s Teachers.

They are David Glodstein, Barbara

Committee Reports:
1. General Education: H. Lewittes distributed a draft document of the new

guidelines to the GEAR document and extended an invitation for all faculty to attend the
meeting on Nov. 19" at 12:30 in Room C-102 to discuss the handout.
2. ARPT: L. Anker presented Academic Affairs’ report on reappointments and
tenure cases, which is attached to the minutes.
Last year there were 17 cases, all for reappointment. Two cases were for a threeyear reappointment; however, some departments didn’t realize that the administration is

now considering three years for exemplary cases. The administration was in agreement

with ARPT in twelve cases and this is notable. Of the remaining five, only one disagreed
with both the ARPT and the Department. For case #6, the administration noted
incorrectly that two department votes had taken place. In fact, there was only one. The

file was sent back for departmental discussion, as indicated in the transmittal letter. The
department accepted proxy votes. Only the second vote should have been considered.
A one-year appointment generally has been considered as a “‘red flag.” However,
one case was given one year in order to have one year to tenure which is beneficial to the
candidate.

Last year the ARPT sent a resolution to the By-Laws committee re: the dean

structure in Business. ARPT felt deans should not vote on ARPT cases because they are
administrative appointments. Business concurred. The dean of the Business School has

not voted, but the Bylaws need amending, in view of changes caused by the introduction

of the dean/ school structure. There is also a question regarding H&L and ELS. Since
they have merged, should the joined department have one or two members on ARPT?
The lack of a Senate Secretary is crucial.
A memo was sent to all departments to send their procedures and criteria for
appointment and tenure to the secretary. Only Business sent theirs. These documents will
remain in the Senate office.
Next Friday, the TLC and Union will have a workshop for those seeking
reappointment, tenure, or anyone interested in how to set up files.

Food will be served.

IMPORTANT: We are asking Dr. Cox and Dr. Butts to act quickly on the five
December cases in order to meet the December 15™ deadline.
ARPT will make the dates for fall in May 2005 to allow candidates and programs
sufficient time to prepare files.

DISCUSSION:

The observation was made that, if reappointment can be summarily

denied, without warning and without clear and understandable reason, junior faculty may
as well begin looking for other jobs when submitting a file for reappointment. In
previous cases, faculty was given a warning.

M. Keizer: What is at issue in this case is justice. In following the

recommendation of the AVP, against the departmental and ARPT consensus, the
President is ill served by his AVP. Faculty are entitled to a warning and due process.
J. Weiss: I was never given a valid reason from Dr. Cox in response to my letter.
C. Hobson: We hoped discussion could have been extended.

Dr. Butts: I will look for a proper forum to discuss more openly.

{Question was raised as to whether a particular faculty member had influenced the
President's decision of non-reappointment. In response, the President stated that all the

evidence he used in reaching his determination was contained in the reappointment file.]
Motion:

A motion by E. Bever was made to extend the meeting 10 minutes.

It was

seconded and approved.
As CAP chair, E. Bever stated that CAP would address the question of whether

H&L’s membership on ARPT. He and L. Anker will present a motion at the next Senate
meeting to allow for two members during the current year.
Old Business:
Discussion of Extended Process of Mission Review II.
C. Hobson suggested the document needs improvement and should come back to

the Senate. A. Barbera stated that faculty should continue to participate, with the

understanding that this initiative would not imply endorsement of the final version. E.
Bever concurred that participation should continue. It was the sense of the Senate to
accept the President’s request for faculty coordinators and a process for finalizing the
document.

A. Frisken, E. Bever, and R. Colon-Urban have agreed to continue the process of

coordination of the final draft of the document. It was suggested that the revised draft be
presented to faculty via e-mail in time for them to read it before the next Senate meeting.
Dr. Cox has already incorporated changes given to him and will distribute it to the three

designated faculty by Monday.

Motion: A motion by H. Lewittes to extend the meeting another 10 minutes was
seconded and approved.
Faculty representation on Budget and Planning Committee: C. Sawyer

reminded the Senate that they had previously endorsed a slate of five candidates for five

positions. The Senate has not yet had time to take up the issue of representation of Chairs
and CAP on the BPC, as the Full Faculty endorsed at its last meeting, but the proposed
slate included representatives from those committees anyway.
However, the President has requested a larger number of candidates for
consideration. A. Barbera read the relevant section of the Bylaws and expressed his
belief that it implied that a slate should be presented with a greater number of faculty

candidates than the number of openings, so that the President could make a choice. In
addition, the Senate is usually in the position of begging faculty to participate, so it
should not seek to deny opportunities to those who wish to do so.
One faculty member who has been on the BPC for some time has requested to
have his name on the slate. T. Delguidice noted that this faculty member had been
particularly responsible in attending meetings of the committee and subcommittees.

Given that some faculty on the committee have not been so responsible, he recommended

allowing this faculty member to continue.
Motion: A motion was made by A. Frisken that a new expanded slate, including the
names of anyone desiring to serve, be sent to the President was seconded and passed.

Proposed time schedule for classes beginning Fall 2005.
A proposal drafted by an ad-hoc committee headed by M. Metlay was distributed
and is attached to this agenda. Discussion will be scheduled for the next Senate meeting.
Senate adjourned at 3:00 p.m.
--R.J.E., acting secretary, with additions by A. Barbera and C. Sawyer.