AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, December 7, 2018 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location S-100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes

Senators in Attendance: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice Chair, M&CS), Dana Tomlin (Secretary/Treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At-Large Rep to the EC), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large, APPC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum(Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Amna Kamil (SGA), Roger Mayer (AC), Sara Williamson (MMF), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gillic (EE), Lisa Payton (AS), Deepa Jani, (EN), Jingyi Song (HP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY), Ryoko Yamamoto (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Jillian Crocker (TLRC), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC)

Senators Absent: Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Runi Mukherji (University Senator Alternate), Taj Ford (SGA), Priscila Ortega (SGA), Laura Anker (FY), Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Rose Muzio (CAP), Laura Limonic (ARPC), Jillian Nissen (BS), Camille Jones (CP), Christopher Hartman (PH), Patty Harris (LEC)

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Calvin Butts (President)

Visitors: Chris Notaro, Ed Bever, Bonnie Eannone, Anthony Barbera, Joanne Spadaro, Jacob Heller, Duncan Quarless, Evan Kobolakis, Fred Fleisher, Chandra Shehigian



			  0.	Meeting arrival and sign in	12:20 p.m.

			

			  I.	Call to Order	12:30 p.m.		

			            Do we have a quorum? Yes, confirmed by headcount.

			 

			 II.	Approval of Minutes for November 16th 	5 minutes (end 12:35)

			           Changes? Page 7 item B curriculum… name of the proposal

			           Section C, response to the white paper, add the name.

			           Page 3: full name for Jennie. Correct spelling for Carl Marcellino. 

			           Minutes approved as amended.

			

			  III.	Chair’s report	5 minutes (end 12:40)

SPAAR Task Force Update:  The Task Force will meet again on December 17, 2018. The. Task Force expects to share a proposal with Faculty Governance and the administration by the end of that week.  This proposal will be discussed at the first meeting of the spring semester on February 1. May be necessary for the Senate to pass a resolution to constitute SPAAR committee on an interim basis during the process to establish as part of the Bylaws.

Blue/Student Evaluations: The Executive Committee is discussing how to ensure the success of the new evaluation system.  This may require the creation of a committee to improve the implementation of the evaluation and especially to increase the student response rate. Are you interested?  Email the chair of the Faculty Senate. 

Senate & Committee Vacancies: The Faculty Senate Chair fills committee vacancies that remain unfilled after the election. 

Ad Hoc Committee on Applied Learning: One remaining SAS Vacancy. Are you interested in Applied Learning?  Email the FS Chair if you wish to help shape our criteria and approval process for Applied Learning. Bonnie Eannone has agreed to replace Laura Anker for FYE.

			

			

			  IV.	Presidents Report	20 minutes (end 1:00)

			

			Great open house on November 10th about 1000 prospective students and their families came to the campus.

			We have also seen a rise and are happy with the number of incoming students that we have. But now they are down. It is a problem across the SUNY system

			This is a problem across the state university students. The pool of prospective students is down by 3% lower. The pool is smaller. High school graduation population is smaller.

			Something that we have to be concerned about. [State] Senator Kaminski called a meeting of all the college presidents across Long Island. Everyone was invited - Adelphi, Molloy, SUNY Farmingdale…

			Democratic Party is taking control of Senate and Assembly, the executive is a Democrat, he called together state senators newly elected and re-elected ones as well. The delegation wanted to hear from the college presidents, what was on their minds.

			They need to select a new chair for Higher Ed committee. But they wanted to get the opinions of the presidents of the schools.

			He was the only person of color there. Shocked, coming out of Old Westbury, where the diversity in student body and faculty is increasing every day.

			They were given 2 minutes each to present themselves and their college,

			Was an opportunity for all the colleges to talk about everything, and the one thing that shocked him was that Farmingdale represented themselves as a baccalaureate institution, indicates competition for that small pool of students.

			The competition is fierce and the presidents have their backs against the wall trying to get students to enroll in their colleges.

			Everything we do is important in increasing our enrollment and retention

Proud of accomplishments here at Old Westbury, very proud of our faculty. Associate professor of American Studies Llana Barber who recently won an award, the Kenneth Jackson award for best book, Immigration and Urban Crisis in Lawrence, Massachusetts, 1945–2000. 

Chris Hobson and his new book, James Baldwin and the Heavenly City: Prophecy, Apocalypse, and Doubt, tremendous! Congrats to those and others

			Academic news, working with Roosevelt school district 700k over next 3 to 4 years, Scholars Academy, to get Roosevelt students to go to college. Over 4 years, the cohort should be 100 students. Congrats to School of Education.

			We are doing great work. At College Council meeting, Anthony, Margaret, Duncan, Jacob, came and presented the work on Middle States accreditation.

			The collaboration efforts have been wonderful, as noted, most of the administration is faculty, have been here. 

			Faculty Senate Chair is excellent! In Council meeting, the presentations represent great work on behalf of the State University and we are pushing forward.

			Faculty is getting stronger especially with the new additions.

			The fierce competition that has been set up by the state schools is absurd

			At this meeting those in attendance were saying wonderful things about themselves and talking about how great their schools were and then spoke about what they needed.

			Similar concern is that they all need space.

			Moreover, democratically controlled, we need help with the UUP contract. We must respect that contract, it ought to be paid, the employees here deserve it - but Old Westbury cannot meet its obligations on that, we do not have the money. 

			System wide it is 1.6 billion dollars, our share of that over the next couple of years is about 16 million.

			If we are to keep up with the strategic planning commitments, and keep up with the increase, and do some of the simple things like update your classrooms, it is impossible for us to keep up with that increase. We need help. 

			It is a demand as the budget process goes forward, we need help. It may not hit us the first year but it will greatly impact us without state help. 

			He does not want anything to destroy the work we have done.

			State representatives on UUP, please, the state has to absorb this. They have the 200 dollar increase in tuition. 

			We represent access and affordability. We speak to the poor people in the state of NY.

			Everyone is happy about Excelsior because poor people need help.

			Doesn’t matter what color you are, ethnicity, religion, poor people are catching hell across the board in the US.

			He feels like he is the only one who uses the word poor, everyone thinks they are middle class. 

			And so therefore we must maintain our success, we must maintain our diversity and commitment to social justice. Adult students, sense of responsibility for all the worlds people.

			And highest regard for human values. We have excellent faculty doing great work, research, writing and teaching in the classroom.

			We have been here before, the recession, cutting of programs. Remember the American Music, Dance and Theater program? We cannot let things like this continue to happen.

			We have Council members who have been there long beyond their tenure. We are required to have these meetings. College Council is the group that selects the president. So if I cannot get movement on appointments to the Council, how am I to get them to move on the budget without confrontation?

			Some faculty are more radical than he is. He is very upset about this.

			He things UUP’s contract should be honored, but the individual schools should have to bear it alone. We need relief.

			The $200 increase he is opposed to now, cuts accessibility and affordability. And it will not be enough to carry our portion of this contract.

			It is unfair to put that burden on the student. 

			He wanted to share this with us, the college held a “snow social” to help students prepare and de-stress before finals. 200 students in attendance Students had fun, many departments attended.

			The cabinet has reviewed the college’s process for snow storms

			He has asked everyone to look closely to make sure we all act effectively. He is finished now but will answer any questions about budget…

			Faculty member: the progression about the union contract, it just keeps up with inflation. Cuomo office has vetoed every bill, has there been pressure?

			SUNY has tried. We present the budget and are proposing this 200 dollar increase or maintenance of effort. He thinks we have to just keep pushing. He is trying to be presidential. Democrats are in control but it is ugly, the bridge that takes most of the poor students across is education.

			The best educational opportunities for poor people are found in the State University system.

			He called the governor and talked to his attorney, we have been here before and have worked our way through them.

			It is painful. Fredonia, thinking about cutting programs. He feels like he is venting now but he is going to fight. Upset that it is unfair to poor people.

			Faculty comment: our best face is getting the faculty out into the community. For us? What are the ways that we can get involved to get the word out about getting the students to apply and enroll?

			President response: Mike Kinane, communication efforts, video, we have gone out into the communities… Instagram, Snap Chat, Mary Marquez Bell. 

			Faculty comment: he is an astronomer, wants to host events on campus dedicated to his specialty. President is happy to hear this and supports idea.

			Faculty comment: remembers bad recession in 1990’s, Rethinking SUNY from Board of Trustees, decision to reduce funding to campuses was top down, we had to deal with 10% budget cut. In a way this adversity brought people on campus together, we collaborated through the summer of 1995 on FS strategic planning and initiatives that led to future external funding. 

			Comment from Maureen Dolan: Chancellor Johnson as you are aware has outlined her vision for renewable energy, initially calling for SUNY to be 100% renewable by 2030. The governor has recently revised his renewable energy vision for technical and financial feasibility. So, new target for state and SUNY is 50% renewable by 2030. Do you know if we participate in the consortium called NYCARES: New York Campus Aggregate Renewable Solutions? (Not related to New York Cares for food security.) Campuses across the state are collaborating on energy and sustainability. 

			President response: not familiar with energy group. 

			On Middle States, wanted to just emphasis, the co-chairs are doing a great job and we will not have problems with Middle States.

			Issue of micro credentialing, he is in favor of it.

			  V.	Provost Report	20 minutes (end 1:20)

			Anthony Barbera: Provost is sorry he cannot be here today, but here is an update on Middle States. Campus has been very active today. There are accreditation visitors on campus, and representatives on campus doing training for department chairs. 

			Update on Middle States: Campus visit will take place spring of 2021. Beginning of November, there was a Middle States self-study institute; pretty much, campuses are going to be involved in the visits.

			Training workshop in their campuses visits, Jacob Heller is co-chair of self-study steering committee, along with Margaret Terrell.

			Middle States Annual Conference: to see what’s going on at other campuses, and every college is assigned a VP from Middle States to work with.

			Appointment letters will go out asking people to serve on the self-study steering committee.

			Design for self-study must be worked on.

			A Middle States Liaison will be visiting the campus to approve design of self-study.

			Fall 2019 to spring 2020 the working groups will do their work. There will be 8 working groups.

			Consist of about 100 people. Approx. 50% will be faculty. Selection letters for those faculty will go out; please accept it when you get the letter.

			All of this in preparation for a visit that will take place in end of spring of 2021, and we will find out in the summer if we will be accredited or not. 

			Jacob Heller asks what happens if we are not accredited? 

			Anthony response: It is very unlikely that we will not be re-accredited.

			At the last visit in 2011, there was one recommendation, no follow-up reports, and we were re-accredited.

			For those of you who remember: in 2001 we had 24 recommendations and had to do a follow-up report. We are in much better shape now.

			We did file a progress report in the beginning of 2018, and it did fix the issue and they accepted that report. We now have a clean slate with Middle States.

			Duncan Quarless: Talking about Blue, one comment now, Blue discussion will commence later; same statement made at College Council meeting. Student course evaluations involve data that belongs to faculty. Administration does two things, technical administrators for the systems and custodians for the data. Whatever else happens, falls within the hands of faculty governance.

			Handout about the issue. 

			President of SGA said at College Council, students find it is user friendly, easy access, and they feel much more comfortable with it than previous programs.

			Duncan said response rate is about 40%

			Jacob Heller: Ad Astra, Platinum Analytics analytic service, OW has been able to get at 95% off. Analytic program that looks at our history of student enrollment that gives us information on student-demanded academic schedule.

			We can create schedule based on last semester schedule. The analytics give us better information before we create the schedule.

			IT has done a really great job. Bob and Christine creating a tunnel between Ad Astra and Banner.

			They have all our student registration records for the last 5 years, and gave us some information on the extent to which we are registering our courses.

			We use the time very efficiently, fullest capacities they have ever seen.

			Our budget is contingent on enrollment, and enrollment impacts retention. Some students complain they cannot get the classes that they want, they are not wrong.

			92% capacity in general education domain cost. We should be at 85% if we want to make good room for their students.

			If we decide for our purposes that there should be no more than 30 students in a class, then we are not addressing structural problem.

			Wednesday January 16th - Same person who did web meeting is coming to campus. That same presentation will be available for anyone. So we can make needed changes to registration. Do we need more classes or fewer? This will give us some ideas. Week before classes, chairs will be around 

			Faculty question: will it be about timing too? Will there be recommendations? 

			Jacob response: Live tracking of students who register. We do not know what our retention will be, but they will include that to predict.

			Question: Mostly with regard to gen ed? No, every course, except internships.

			Will be able to give a recommendation for every section that we are offering, to see if we need more to accommodate the demand for general education.

			The slides that Jacob mentioned are well worth it. You may see something that will make you want to come to the meeting. It is really useful

			It is at a discount for now. Tell your chairs!

			

			

			  VI.     Old Business

			CAP Resolution for Micro-credentials                                               30 minutes (end 1:50)

			Included in your packet is the resolution. We will enter in the record and discuss.

			Hopefully you read this task force proposal and now you have the resolution itself.

			Resolution was read and seconded.

			Floor is open for discussion.

			Friendly amendment: In the last “Whereas”, remove the phrase “and certificates”. Amendment was seconded and approved by voice vote.

			Ok, now discussion on body of resolution.

			Visual Arts department: a lot written about what will happen as far as Minors, on page 13, makes a program that involves 24 or more into a certificate, 

			24 credits mean’s student qualifies for financial aid

			Micro credentials are smaller than 24 credits

			Will micro credentials take over for some of the minors already in place?

			If micro credential is 1 or 2 courses, and someone likes the courses, they are meant to be feeders into the minor.

			Students test the water and then can go on, called “stacking”.

			One of the main aspects of proposal, to give students a leg up in the job market, in the review process, how are they going to measure these external effects? How are we going to measure? Training for statistical software great, but 2 courses for drug counseling? Be mindful about what we are making into micro credentials.

			Question from the floor: How are we going to assess the success of people who are getting these certificates?

			If a micro credential in a department is approved, in the same way we don’t know if a person is getting a job in a specific major, same thing.

			Prove that the series of courses which is proposed has integrity.

			Giving students a shorter term manageable set of goals. With Psychology department, can be more readily measured. 

			This is an initiative that is leaving our college. Need to figure out assessment 

			Senate member: Why do we need micro credentials? Are we going to detract from our mission? Digital badges mean more technology. My question is, schools that are very good like Stony Brook and Farmingdale, they have a lot of resources, are we going to lose our mission? He is for micro credential but he is afraid.

			Veronika: Without knowing, without evidence, do we know that they work?

			Micro credentials are very new. Stony has issued hundreds. 

			Roger: One thing, these things will be extremely valuable as people move up their career ladder, ultimately, they will be imbedded into their Linked In profile. Students that come in for the credentialing, are they students in the usual sense? If they are students who become alumni, will their success be tracked by Jacob? One of the things that accreditors look for is the success of our students. If Jacob is tracking them then we will know if the credentialing worked. Engaging them on Linked In. 

			Depends on how we record them, if it is done through registrar, through Banner, then it is trackable. If it is done through outside vendors, then no. There may be better data but we wouldn’t know.

			The issue of tracking alumni is that they are not reachable. 

			We need evidence of effectiveness and assessment.

			Mandy: Senate asked for this report that the task force produced. The purpose is to explain the value of micro credentials; report doesn’t explain why we need it.

			Campus can benefit in a number of ways: makes sense to do a trial, allows us to compete for students in a way that doesn’t cause us to change curriculum. Can push it into a major that already exists. Pushing extra expertise in a given area.

			Allows students to showcase a specialty, adding something without taking away from the degree.

			We are very mindful of the administration’s concerns, how all of this is going to be managed, and tagging all of these courses in Banner, additional tags will change as time goes on and may not be picked up by Banner.

			Who will do the work and be compensated?

			Maureen: This proposal, if approved, opens the door to granting a new type of academic credential. It is ultimately the responsibility of Senate to decide if this will become part of our educational endeavor. We have precedent for deliberating on such consequential decisions. Within the past two decades, governance had to decide whether to support a Master Plan amendment to allow for the granting of graduate degrees. Faculty engaged in extensive serious debate about our core mission. There was detailed cost-benefit analysis, detailed data on possible revenue streams, regional markets, demand and existing competition. Resources need to be prioritized, especially when resources are scarce. Back then, in deciding whether to allow for graduate degrees, faculty weighed concerns and impact on existing programs against opportunity. To address faculty reservations, the Senate eventually approved the Master Plan amendment, provided that, doing so would not detract resources from existing undergraduate programs  

			CAP bylaws state that all proposals shall include a detailed analysis of the impact on the allocation of college resources. 

			Senate member: We are being asked to approve something whose costs and resources will be revealed at a later date. Concern about non-matriculated students, essentially changing the profile of campus. 

			Anthony: up to 32 credits can be taken by non-matriculated students, in Accounting and Education.

			Comment: This proposal is for a campus-wide mechanism opening the door, so that every department can now offer micro credentials. Can courses from other institutions be transferred to micro credentials?

			Response from Ed: Each proposal for a micro credential must specify whether the courses can be transferred. Would be up to the program and the Senate. 

			Anthony: It is up to this body and CAP. Like minors, no more than one course in the minor can be in the major, no more than 1 or whatever must pass through here.

			There is no campus wide requirement. Two courses seems so small… anyone can propose any amount. 

			Is a micro credential required to be housed within a single department, or can it live outside the department?

			Treated like a minor, could be multiple departments, but not no departments. 

			A Senator held up a new brochure from Nassau Community College, which lists all courses available as Continuing Education. Is such an extensive program envisioned for micro credentials?  

			Ed reply: School of Professional Studies is designed to be able to do this kind of thing. 

			Anthony: Four proposals currently being submitted; micro credentials can be submitted by any department. 

			Point 1: If someone is coming here just for micro credential, non-matriculated student, no degree, not alumni, whether you want statistics on them is a separate issue; we currently do not know what people do with the degrees they get from this institution.

			Point 2: SUNY had a task force on micro credentials that produced a report. With regard to data, SUNY has done the vetting for us, they have the data, and it’s in the report. Point 3: The example that Mandy Frisken gave during presentation for CAP, one of the reasons is to help our students show outsiders what skills they have learned. 

			Enhancing what we can do for outsiders.

			Currently about 140 non-matriculated students each semester. 

			Faculty member asked: Possible credential race by departments? 

			John Kleinman: Seeing it from academic advising perspective, students not making deliberate choices with electives. He sees it as an opportunity for encouraging students to make use of their course work outside of gen ed or their major. Some of our minors can be difficult to complete. In some ways, a micro credential can be easier to complete. Courses being available and such. 

			Modern Language department: believes would be beneficial for majors. You can see they have a specialization underneath their major, probably what teachers do when they come back to certain programs to increase their salary.

			Joanne Spadaro: She sees this fitting into the mission of the college, with education and knowledge being more accessible, she could see herself even, undergrad student coming back seeing Latin American and Caribbean studies, nonprofit sector, it does fit into mission.

			Parliamentarian Point of Order: Senate has exceeded time allotted for discussion of agenda item. Chair asks for motion from the floor: to extend time for discussion, to postpone discussion or to proceed to a vote on resolution? 11 vote Yes [to postpone], 8 note No [to postpone], 0 abstention. We will postpone

			Chair to Senators: Go back to departments and be prepared to discuss February 1.

			

			Classroom Technology   	15 minutes	(end 2:05)

			Evan Kobolakis: volunteered to speak last today.

			

			BLUE student evaluations	10 minutes (end 2:15)

			D. Quarless is here for questions, Floor is open for discussion.

			Jill Crocker: Finds BLUE a cool thing; she didn’t realize daily reports on enrollment, so dropped students are not sent an email to do evaluation. 

			Jennie D’Ambroise: In summary, on behalf of Math&CIS, there are some questions about the validity of method of data collection, and whether data could be used in a way like competing for higher ratings. Faculty body will come together and assess the questions that are on BLUE; in order to inform that discussion, what are the capabilities of BLUE if things want to be enhanced?

			Quarless: there is tremendous flexibility. LEC courses are a toddler in BLUE, you could potentially have additional data that is not currently in BLUE. There are things that you can do in the course attributes in Banner that are not included in BLUE right now, a number of things that can be done. The truth of the matter is, when three resolutions came to the Senate in 2016, that was not the end of the deal. It was the beginning of process from paper to online evaluations.

			He may be speaking out of turn for the provost, but the provost would welcome getting faculty governance plugged back in. Is we really interested? Is there potential for one school to decide, for an instrument to be developed that doesn’t look like another?

			Veronika Dolar: Can department themselves generate questions, such as physical accommodation questions? 

			Anthony: Questions for student evaluations are approved by Faculty Senate. ARPT did not accept faculty-generated questions. Evaluations are part of the faculty member’s ARPT file. 

			Can a committee or working group be made for creation or implementation?

			Jacob Heller has been involved with student evaluations. They are neither reliable nor valid, a platform he was concerned with when using them to measure teacher effectiveness; we should not put more emphasis or importance on it than it deserves. One thing we can do is demonstrate the biases in system. 

			Quarless: Went through the tenure process. What the tool says it is, is student perceptions of instruction. In his department he had peer observations, peers looking at assessment material, mentoring that was going on when it came time to assess the issue of how students were responding to him; he attempted to use them all in his self- evaluation. 

			

			Update on SPAAR	10 minutes (end 2:25)

			Mandy Frisken: SPAAR Task Force sees SPAAR committee as aspirational committee, the goal is to help this strategic plan happen. Proposal for SPAARC was completed by task force whose members included faculty and FS Chair; their work involved all stake holders.

			Made good progress so far, hope to finish Draft charge of SPAAR committee by end of December. So far it will consist of 7 members of president’s cabinet, ex officio; 6 faculty members will be elected by faculty, with initial group of faculty to be selected by Senate;  Faculty Senate Chair will serve ex officio; 3 student members, including SGA president, and 2 representatives of unions. Total of 19 members on committee, large but workable.

			Will be able to carry out its work to make progress on the strategic plan.

			In next couple of weeks, proposal from SPAARC task force will be distributed; survey departments and get ready for discussion on February 1st

			Will this committee replace the previous resource allocation committee?

			To form this we have to revise bylaws, create bylaws committee.

			

			VII.	 Announcements 	5 minutes (end 2:30)

			OER Ad hoc Committee: Joanne Spadaro and Veronika Dolar

			Veronika says OER is active; thanks faculty who are engaged in conversation about it.

			Extending invitation for further discussion.

			Drafting sustainability plan for OER courses.

			Have feedback?? Give it please, if course has more than 51% of OER material, please let them know so we can tag it.

			If you still want to use OER for spring 2019, they can help.

			You can still apply for proposal.

			

			Parliamentarian Point of Order: Motion from the floor to extend meeting time to allow Evan to give brief report. Motion seconded and approved by voice vote.  

			

			Classroom Technology: Evan Kobolakis (Agenda Item VI. B, moved from earlier.) 

			Evan: The question was the technology in smart classrooms: looking at all classrooms in science building, main campus and NAB, no classroom has issues. We have tested them all.

			Question: Can every department have a remote control?

			Evan response: We have 52 classrooms, we do not have 52 remotes. The remotes disappear, it would be their responsibility. 

			The technology in the library classrooms, are there instructions telling people how to use it? How smart are our classrooms? 

			Not at all, they are active learning classrooms. Directions will become available, support and instructional design classrooms. But you can plug in your own devices.

			Faculty member: Uses classroom in the library, but nothing there to connect her laptop. They do not have anything to give her but told her she could buy it… the connector to all the TV’s HDMI, they do not provide it. 

			Response: When they are fully functional they will be wireless. 

			Question: IT governance committee, does it still meet? 

			Evan: Yes they meet. Two faculty reps, Yogesh More and Patti Harris, they are wonderful and raised issues about IPad connection. We are providing feedback to them.

			Concern from the floor: This week a professor had a problem, he is annoyed, we have one person handling the entire campus. 

			Starting December 28th we are hiring a manager taking over all digital and multimedia, soon there will be 3 people.

			 Another concern from the floor: no one from IT to help with early morning classes. Also, nobody from IT to help after 5pm. They are a 9 to 5 operation, so others do not get the full support they need. 

			Response: There will be a person in the library for all the hours. 

			

			VIII. Adjournment at 2:40pm.				

			

			

			

			  

			

					

				

10