STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLLEGE 

AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, December 1, 2017 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Minna Barrett (Immediate Past University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Linval Frazer (AC), Yu Lei (MMF), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Blidi Stemm (CE), Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Jillian Nissen (BS), Judy Lloyd (CP), Deepa Jani (EN), Jingyi Song (H&P), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY), Chris Hartmann (PH), Amanda Shigihara (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Llana Barber (LEC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)



Senators Absent:  William Gillis (SAS, Senator At-Large), Runi Mukherji (Alt. Univ. Senator), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Andrew Hashey (EE), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (ARPT), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC), Jill Crocker (TLRC)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Barbara Hillery (Dean SAS)



Visitors:  Omar Estrada Torres, Duncan Quarless, Shalei Simms, Laurette Morris, Sheyi Oladipo, Bonnie Eannone





MINUTES

			   I.	Call to Order 12:35pm							

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of Nov 17, 2017

			

			Anthony Barbera was present but is not in attendance list; correct the 11/17 attendance. 

			The amended minutes are approved by voice vote.

			

			 III.	FS Chair’s Report 	

			

			See attached Chair Report

			The Chair yielded a portion of report time to the Parliamentarian.

			Statement from the Parliamentarian on Open Meetings

			At the Nov. 17th meeting during a scheduled agenda item, some members of the Senate (non-UUP) were asked to leave the room. That was unexpected and not standard practice. The Faculty Senate affirms its commitment to openness and transparency. Our practices are consistent with SUNY Policy on Open Meetings. Our Faculty Senate derives its authority through University governance and Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, who in turn are empowered under NYS Education Law. We take detailed minutes and publish/disseminate meeting materials, conducive to open lines of communication and consistent with open meetings. All members of the Campus Community are invited to attend. 

			Some relevant background: In 2005 there was the case of Perez v. CUNY.  A student sued a community college about lack of transparency in the expenditure of funds.    A landmark ruling in 2006 by NYS Court of Appeals led to the Open Meetings law.  Although SUNY was not sued or directly involved in lawsuit, SUNY Legal Counsel recommended caution (“better safe than sorry”). SUNY adopted Open Meetings as official policy of the University and all its governance bodies. 

			In the past, over many decades, there were regular updates by UUP to our Faculty Senate. Visitors and all members of the Senate were present during these updates.  We do reaffirm our commitment to openness and practices that advance good governance. If, on rare occasion, it may be necessary to go into Executive Session, that can be accommodated under our Bylaws and open meetings policies. There have been rare instances when it was necessary to discuss sensitive or personnel matters.  The last instance found of going into Executive Session was over 20 years ago. Faculty Senate was dealing with very serious/sensitive matters related to senior administration (not UUP).  Since Senate meetings are open meetings, the Executive Committee can call a special meeting of EC to which only voting Faculty Senators are invited. Open Meetings policies apply to all SUNY governance bodies, but executive session is allowed under certain limited circumstances. Minutes are not published for any part of a meeting that is closed session.  

			

			IV.  	President’s Report

			

			The President was called away from campus and cannot be here.

			

			V. 	Provost’s Report

			

			Duncan Quarless reports on Scantron.  Over the past year we have been incrementally proceeding toward online course evaluations.  There was a delay by one semester to deal with certain glitches.  There is a 14 day window for students to fill the surveys.  At about 3pm this afternoon course evaluations will go out to students.  The questionnaire and the implementation process were both approved by the faculty senate.  There is a space for written comments, and this format was approved by the faculty senate.  Class time should be designated in order to improve student response rate.  There is a video that will begin streaming on Orca TV; it is a general promotion video.  In the classrooms there is an instructional video for the students.  We know the process is not perfect.  We are tweaking the process as we go.  Please communicate all concerns to Duncan and he will forward concerns to relevant people.

			Faculty interested in Open Educational Resources (OER) should provide by today to Duncan proposals for using OER for the Fall, Winter or Spring sessions.  Duncan will continue to accept proposals until Dec 5 when we must report to SUNY.   Please see Duncan’s email asking faculty to opt in to the OER group.  If you opt into the group you will receive more information (in order to reduce excessive emailing).  Faculty comments that even if you do not have a current proposal, but if you are thinking of it for the future, please get involved with the OER group.

			Veronika Dolar in Microeconomics studied the grades of students who used laptops during class v. those not allowed.  The scores on the exams were much higher without electronic devices.  Please read the distributed article:  “Laptops are Great. But Not During a Lecture or a Meeting.”

			Please read the distributed article: Getting Faculty to Embrace Student Data.

			The Provost thanks those who contributed to faculty talks in the residence halls.  When the Provost did one himself he observed that students were nervous to ask questions in class or the students thought it was too much of a bother to interrupt professors.  

			The Provost asks the Faculty Senate to consider the ambiguity of “what college service is”.  Is department service college service?  Must you be on a college-wide committee?  If someone is compensated with money or course releases, is that college service?  

			Minna Barrett comments that faculty should look back at ARPT policy.  The policy was transformed under the new/current presidential administration.  College service usually means standing committees, ad-hoc and other committees created under the Faculty Senate structure.  The Executive Committee appoints people to discuss it.  We should define it and make it clear.  Faculty asks whether organizing a conference counts.  No, that is professional activity.  

			Maureen Dolan comments that under the ARPT process of faculty review, college service refers to serving the whole institution not just a piece of the institution.  This is the only way that the work of governance can be done.  Faculty comments that junior faculty takes on a heavy share of this college-wide service.  It is fantastic to encourage tenured faculty to take on more of the college-wide service.  Maureen D. comments that, in the past, it was senior faculty who did the bulk of the college-wide service.  It is a recent change over past decade, for junior faculty to be doing bulk of college-wide service. We need broader discussion of the need for all to be part of the whole, beyond the silos of departments and schools.     

				   

			VI.	New Business

			

			LEC Annual Report (Llana Barber)

			Procedural point by Parliamentarian: The LEC Annual Report was previously received by and approved by the Senate at its October 6th meeting. That prior vote provides for today’s presentation and further discussion of the report. 

			The LEC is charged with overseeing the liberal education curriculum.  New courses were reviewed for liberal education.  LEC is also involved with assessment for learning outcomes in individual classes.  They also look at classes in certain domains.  You may be approached by LEC to look at your syllabus.  Don’t be shy about it, as syllabi are public.  LEC looks at learning outcomes in the domain and whether they will be included in the syllabus.  There is financial incentive for faculty to develop new courses especially in domains where we do not have enough courses.  Remember that we serve the college when we offer liberal education courses, but that also serves our majors too.  LEC has individual domain reports with numbers of courses in each domain.  LEC would like in the future to have data on reports for students looking for courses, and what they were able to enroll in.  Minna Barrett comments that the liberal education courses can also feed into minors.  Here at OW we have a broad interdisciplinary model.  Think about this when creating courses.  Applied Learning also gives us a way to think about our curriculum in a different way, to popularize material students may otherwise never study.  Liberal education has a lot to offer us as a college.  Duncan Quarless comments that if Applied Learning is adopted it will go under the purview of faculty.  Please watch out for emails, proposals will be due in April for new liberal education courses.

				

			VII.	Announcements

			

			Minna Barrett comments that an Applied Learning template will be sent out.  We are currently working on it.

			

			Omar Estrada-Torres thanks the faculty committee that gave recommendations for the OW Shuttle last semester.  Omar announces that the TransLoc Rider app is now available for the OW Shuttle.  The current shuttle express to Hicksville train, the on-campus loop shuttle, and the weekend shuttle all appear on the app.  The immediate vehicle arriving and the one after that are also noted on the app as to when they will arrive.  “No prediction” means that the shuttle is an hour away.  Other nearby colleges are also using this app.  A college wide announcement will be sent out next week.  The app has been tested and is working.  We are expecting an additional van rotated in for additional service.  J. D’Ambroise asks about complaint procedures.  The faculty committee last semester found that complaints accumulated in various places not necessarily getting to the right person of Greg Riviero.  Omar responds that we can look into this, and perhaps Greg Riviero can add something more to the transportation webpage.  Maureen D. comments that responsibility for operating the buses is somewhat unclear; the college website lists Facilities division as having responsibility for buses, presumably through maintenance and operations of the actual vehicles, but since Student Affairs presides over transportation board, and Academic Affairs last year commissioned the shuttle bus study, who is ultimately responsible for shuttle bus service? Faculty comments that she downloaded the app and she uses the shuttle.  She asks whether there is a mechanism for driver accountability and/or ridership data counts.  Omar responds saying that Greg Riviero has more access to the in workings of the app, but they will be able to tell if lateness is due to traffic or due to the driver.  Greg Riviero will be on top of any driver lateness if that is ever an issue.  The next step in the future may be to obtain more data such as ridership; this part may take more time and may take additional resources.  Omar comments that maintenance and operations are responsible for the maintenance and operations of the vehicles, and that Tim McGarry and Greg Riviero are responsible parties on campus.  They will be responsible for collecting any data information too.  Faculty comments that overcrowding is a problem because of the sparse schedule, and this could be mitigated by running every half an hour.  Omar responds that he will relay that information.  A bus is a six figure investment, and students took the brunt of that investment previously.  The question is who takes the brunt of that cost.  Tim McGarry is open to attending this meeting [Faculty Senate] for further questions.  J. D’Ambroise adds that during the faculty committee work we found that in the past there were more buses but Greg Riviero reported that busses would catch up to each other due to excessive traffic complications.  Faculty comments that the sizes of each vehicle is different, so this is a consideration.  Faculty asks whether there are some green grants?  J. D’Ambroise comments that the faculty committee last semester looked into it and there are challenges with eligibility.  Omar comments that this conversation is not lost and there are a lot of challenges for us to deal with.  Ali Ebrahimi comments that we should look into apps with TransLoc for parking.

			

			Evan Rufrano announces that he will be attending the Executive Cabinet meeting for the student assembly.

			

			VIII.	Adjournment	



Faculty Senate Chair Report

December 1, 2017



Critical Appeal for One More At-Large Member for ARPT:   There is still one remaining seat on the ARPT committee that must be filled before the end of the semester.   We are looking for any full-time tenure track faculty member from:

SAS: AS, HI, CP, MA, PH, PY, SY, VA, (not from: BS, EL, ML, PEL.) 

SOB: May be from Accounting.

SOE: May be from Childhood or Adolescence (Exceptional is already represented) and, if on a Joint Appointment, the auxiliary department can't be one already represented on ARPT.

Request for Comment: Strategic Plan.  The revised Strategic Plan Document have been circulated to the college community.  Comments should be sent to Co-Chairs of the Planning Process before December 22, 2017.

Vote! Special Election for University Faculty Senate: The nominations for University Faculty Senator and Alternate Senator have closed and the special election run by Nominations and Elections Committee is underway. Our goal is to have a new University Faculty Senator in time for the Winter Plenary, January 18-20, 2017 at SUNY Polytechnic Institute.

Advisory Committee on Campus Safety:  After consultation with the office of the president and the co-chairs of the committee, the size of the committee has been reduced from 24 to 12 members consisting of 4 representatives each from the students, faculty, and the administration. Two new faculty representatives will be appointed to the committee each academic year to serve for a two-year term.  The Faculty Senate will nominate four faculty members from which the president will appoint the new two faculty members required each year. 



Rules for Establishment of the Committee from SUNY:

Policy: Campus Safety Advisory Committees, Establishment of

[Source: https://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=366 ]

Summary

It is the policy of the State University of New York (University) to comply with legal requirements of Article 129-A of NYS Education Law §6431 (Regulation of Conduct on Campus and Other College Property Used for Educational Purposes). Accordingly, the Board of Trustees of the State University of New York has adopted written rules requiring campuses to establish campus safety advisory committees. These committees will provide advice and written reports on issues relating to personal safety on the campus as well as perform identified requirements of 20 USC §1092(f), also known as the “Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act.” (See the University procedure on Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Reporting for information regarding the requirements and format for reporting official crime statistics.) 

I. Establishment of Campus Safety Advisory Committee

It is the policy of the State University of New York (University) to comply with legal requirements of Article 129-A of NYS Education Law §6431 (Regulation of Conduct on Campus and Other College Property Used for Educational Purposes). Accordingly, the Board of Trustees of the University has adopted written rules requiring campuses to establish campus safety advisory committees.

A.   Committee Composition – The committee shall consist of a minimum of six members:

1.    at least half of the committee shall be female;

2.    one-third of the committee shall be appointed from a list of students that contains at least twice the number to be appointed, which is provided by the largest student governance organization on the campus;

3.    one-third of the committee shall be appointed from a list of faculty members that contains twice the number to be appointed, which is provided by the largest faculty organization on the campus; and

4.    one-third of the committee shall be selected by the president. 

B.   Committee Responsibilities - The committee shall review current campus security policies and procedures and make recommendations for their improvement. It shall specifically review current policies, plans and procedures for:

1.    educating the campus community, including security personnel and those persons who advise or supervise students, about sexual assault pursuant to §6432 of Article 129-A of NYS Education Law;

2.    educating the campus community about personal safety and crime prevention;

3.    reporting sexual assaults and dealing with victims during investigations;

4.    referring complaints to appropriate authorities;

5.    counseling victims; and

6.    responding to inquiries from concerned persons.

C.   Written Annual Reporting - The committee shall report in writing, at least once (June 15) each academic year to:

1.    the campus president;

2.    the entire campus including faculty, staff, administrators and students in publications or appropriate mailing; and

3.    when requested, applicants for enrollment or employment.

This annual written report does not constitute the mandatory reporting of official crime statistics (see the University procedure on Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Reporting). 

					

6