Micro-Credential Task Force Proposal
November 7, 2018

Executive Summary
Micro-Credentials are recognitions issued for specifics sets of skills and competencies
achieved through study and activities in credit- or non-credit bearing courses. (pp. 6-7 in
the this report) Micro-Credentials have roots in training programs, certification and
licensures of business and are currently utilized in business, the non-profit sector, P-12
institutions and increasingly institutions of higher education. (pp. 7-8) SUNY campuses
have been leaders in developing credit-bearing Micro-Credentials, with Albany, Alfred
State, Buffalo, Orange, and Stony Brook currently offering them and a number of other
campuses considering them. (pp. 8-10)
SUNY’s system administration has embraced Micro-Credentials. In October of 2015 it
created a Task Force on Micro-Credentials that included campus presidents, provosts,
faculty governance representatives, student governance leaders, registrars, business
officers, institutional researchers and continuing education officers. The Task Force
reviewed work underway nationally and across SUNY campuses and issued a Report
and Recommendations that was endorsed by the SUNY Board of Trustees in January
2018 that included purposes, recommendations, and requirements for Micro-Credentials
in SUNY. (pp. 10-13)
The Purposes these documents identify for Micro-Credentials include that they:
a) Certify skills for employers,
b) Motivate students toward completion,
c) Encourage students to explore and broaden their experience and skill sets,
d) Differentiate students in the job market,
e) Promote partnerships with industry/other educational institutions,
f) Provide short term competency training for professional development, and
g) Ladder from non-credit to credit and from stand-alone credential to degree
program.
The Requirements that SUNY has set for Micro-Credentials are that:

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
a) Faculty governance participation is required to create Micro-Credentials as a
category of campus-issued credentials, to determine if a particular MicroCredential should be credit-bearing, and if so to approve it.
b) Like minors, Micro-Credentials are locally developed and approved as a category
of credential and in individual instances, so long as they are consistent with
SUNY policies and State and Federal regulations.
c) Cost, financial aid, learning outcomes, assessment and stackability must be
clearly delineated.
d) Non-credit articulation to credit must reflect learning outcomes, not experience
alone.
e) They must be portable to other SUNYs per SUNY Policy 1008 Transfer and
Articulation and MTP 13-3 Seamless Transfer.
f) They may not have same title as a registered program.
g) Tuition must be charged at the approved rate if they are credit-bearing.
Micro-Credentials are strongly associated with on-line representations in social media
such as on LinkedIn, and while it would theoretically be possible for an institution such
as Old Westbury to create its own platform to perform these operations, as well as
maintain records of credentials issued, even venerable organizations like Microsoft and
Cisco, not to mention Open SUNY, use third party vendors for their certificates. Third
party vendors, such as Credly, are externally maintained platforms with tools to create
and support Micro-Credentials, and are used by most if not all of the SUNY institutions
that currently offer Micro-Credentials. (pp. 14-15)
In Fall 2017 the Provost tasked the Director of the School of Professional Studies with
monitoring SUNY’s emerging policies related to Micro-Credentials. The Director met
with CAP in Fall 2017 to report on the SUNY Task Force’s Draft Report and in Spring
2018 to report on its Final Report and to submit a proposal for a Micro-Credential to be
offered by the SPS. CAP discussed the report and proposal and decided to refer the
matter, along with a summary of its discussion, to the Senate Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee arranged for Dr. Bever to give a presentation on MicroCredentials to the Full Faculty Meeting in May of 2018, and then set up a Task Force to
2

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
create a proposal on whether and if so how to introduce Micro-Credentials at Old
Westbury. The Task Force met a in June and formed working groups that worked over
the Summer, and then drafted and approved a Report and Recommendations that were
presented at CAP on October 16, 2018. (pp. 15-17)
In the summary of its discussion CAP sent to the Senate, it raised a number of issues
that the Task Force’s Report and Recommendations address in its body:
Relationship to the College’s Mission: As a Comprehensive College that serves
students at the undergraduate and graduate levels, Micro-Credentials align with
our mission by providing our students with motivational value to persist and
explore in ways that can enhance academic and co-curricular experiences, lead
to the development of specific in-demand skills and competencies, and pathways
to programs of study in which they can establish themselves and demonstrate
their potential (pp. 17-19).
Marketability: In some industries digital Micro-Credentials are already established
and valued. In addition, in a survey conducted as part of the Task Force’s work,
employers agreed that applicants with Micro-Credentials could help them screen
candidates more quickly to identify qualified candidates (pp. 20-21).
Financial Aid: Courses included in credit-bearing Micro-Credentials, like courses
in Minors, would be eligible for State and/or Federal aid so long as they
contribute to the fulfillment of a student’s degree program’s General Education,
Major, or General Elective requirements. SUNY system administration has a
Task Force working on encompassing Micro-Credentials more explicitly in
Financial Aid structures. (pp. 21-23).
Resource Demands: Adding a new type of credential would increase the
demands on some administrative offices including registrar, enrollment services,
academic advising and financial aid (pp. 23-24).
Implications for Academic Programs: The implications for academic programs
seem minimal in terms of staffing and strains on academic resources since in
general the courses they will involve already exist, and other specific issues
would be determined on a case-by-case basis (pp.24-25).
3

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
Additional, issues raised by CAP would be addressed by each department on a
case-by-case basis since decisions about the types and nature of MicroCredentials would be left to each department’s discretion (pp. 25-27).
Finally, offering Micro-Credentials at SUNY Old Westbury could contribute to
Goal 1 Foster Student Success (Objective A and C) and Goal 4 Strengthen
Institutional Effectiveness (Objective C) of the Strategic Plan (pp. 27-28).
The Task Force concluded that in offering Micro-Credentials students would benefit
from motivation, employable skills, the rewards of exploration, and adding a secondary
specialization while the College would benefit from higher completion rates, enhanced
academic and co-curricular experiences to students, new and sustainable revenue
streams from non-matriculated students some of whom would be provided with a ladder
into degree programs, and a new form of credential that can be added or removed on its
own initiative without necessity of approval from SUNY System Administration or the
State Education Department (pp. 28-29). There are potential issues that accompany
offering Micro-Credentials that include, uncertainty about student interest, financial aid,
marketability, impact on existing academic programs, costs of administrative support for
them, and the call in the Strategic Plan for Micro-Credentials to be considered in the
context of overall assessment of the College’s academic offerings and the creating of
guiding principles for development of new programs (pp. 29).
After exploring and weighing the potential benefits against the issues, the MicroCredentials Task Force recommends that the College begin offering Micro-Credentials
(pp. 29-31) under the following conditions:
Credit-bearing Micro-Credentials would be modeled on the existing proposal
structure of Minors and submit a proposal to CAP.
Students would need to apply for a Micro-Credential in order to earn the
credential.
A third-party vendor like Credly would be contracted to provide the infrastructure
to support Micro-Credentials.
The School of Professional Studies in conjunction with Academic Affairs and the
Registrar would create the infrastructure to support Micro-Credentials.
4

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
The proposed timeline is for CAP to introduce the Micro-Credentials Task Force
Proposal with resolution to adopt to Faculty Senate on 11/16/18 so the Senate
can discuss and vote on the CAP resolution on 12/7/18. If adopted, the Proposal
would be submitted to College Administration for endorsement, a platform vendor
would be contracted and programs would begin submitting proposals for MicroCredentials to CAP in Spring 2019.

5

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Introduction
This Proposal consists of two parts. The first part is a Report giving information on
Micro-Credentials in general and in SUNY plus the consideration that has been given to
them thus far at Old Westbury. The second part contains the Task Force’s
Recommendations.

I. Report
A. What are Micro-Credentials?
There is no universally accepted definition of Micro-Credentials, but in general they are
free-standing credentials given for the achievement of specific sets of skills or
competencies.
The skills or competencies can be achieved through credit or non-credit work. This
work can be distributed across a variety of courses or activities and measured by
performance on specific assessments, or contained in a defined set of courses or
activities and measured by their correspondence to the courses’ learning outcomes or
the activities’ general objectives.
Micro-Credentials are named for specific industry-specified certifications or professional
accreditations when they align with their requirements, or are more generically referred
to as “badges,” a name derived from clickable digital icons embedded in online resumes
or LinkedIn profiles linking to pages with validating information.
Credit-bearing Micro-Credentials generally involve a smaller number of credits than a
regular free-standing credentials, while non-credit Micro-Credentials represent the
outcome of a similarly focused set of activities.

6

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
Note that a SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force issued a “Report and
Recommendations” in January 2018 that was endorsed by the Board of Trustees in the
same month that includes a “Recommended SUNY Micro-Credential Definition.” That
more specific definition is considered below, in the section on the SUNY context of this
initiative.
B. Background and Context
1) National Context
Micro-Credentials have their roots in the training programs, certifications, and licensures
of businesses. These were traditionally recognized with paper credentials, but with the
rise of the internet and social media, some businesses, particularly in the tech industry,
borrowed the concept of Micro-Credentials from online gaming and began issuing their
certifications in this form. Currently Microsoft, IBM, Adobe, Citrix, Cisco, Verizon, Home
Depot, and Disney, among numerous others, use the leading digital Micro-Credentials
platform, Credly to issue in-house as well as “certified developer”-type credentials. As
their use has spread, so too did their acceptance, although the extent to which they are
known, understood, and valued by businesses varies considerably. More specific
information about the local situation on Long Island is given below.
K-12 educational institutions were relatively quick to adopt Micro-Credentials to both
recognize and reward students’ incremental accomplishments and teachers’
professional development. Higher Education has responded more slowly, although
initiatives have by now been undertaken across the country.
Some of this adoption was driven by disruptive educational initiatives like Udacity, a forprofit enterprise which offers “Nanodegrees” (which it has copyrighted) and works in
partnership with companies like Google, Facebook, Amazon, IBM, and Nvidia, and edX,
a non-profit founded and governed by more than 50 university partners including MIT,
Harvard, Berkeley, the University of Texas system, Arizona State, and the University of
7

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
Maryland system. It offers, among other credentials, over 30 “MicroMasters” (again
copyrighted) that can contribute to (“stack toward”) a degree at a participating university.
Other initiatives were designed to supplement the traditional academic degree by
highlighting skills, proficiencies and accomplishments that transcripts don’t capture.
Illinois State University was an early adopter of Micro-Credentials – in 2015, its Honors
Program began to offer a series of Micro-Credentials through Credly’s digital platform to
recognize student achievements and participation in co-curricular activities and
community events. Similarly, the Mblem program at University of Michigan utilizes
Mozilla Backpack as a platform to allow students to earn Micro-Credentials for cocurricular experiences in community service, cross cultural experience, entrepreneurial
mindset, ethics, intellectual curiosity, leadership and professional development. By
2016, a survey of 190 colleges conducted by the University Professional Continuing
Education Association and Pearson, one in five colleges have issued digital MicroCredentials. Most of these colleges worked with an outside company to provide
infrastructure for the alternative credentials.
While many of the Higher Education Micro-Credential initiatives have been non-credit,
some non-credit Micro-Credentials can stack toward credit-bearing certifications, like
the edX MicroMasters mentioned above, and there is an increasing trend toward creditbearing Micro-Credentials. One example is an online MS in Education at Purdue
University, which gives students the opportunity to pursue a series of digital MicroCredentials for credit. However, some of most advanced initiatives in this area are
actually being undertaken within SUNY.
2) Other SUNYs
SUNY institutions already make a robust use of non-credit Micro-Credentials. SUNY
Albany’s University Library system offers a collection of four Micro-Credentials that
combine to form a Meta-Literacy Badge. Alfred State has a pilot Micro-Credential
program that is being used to improve career readiness for student employees by
8

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
fostering career readiness competencies. SUNY Orange has a credential in alcohol
and substance abuse counseling, and Stony Brook and SUNY Buffalo offer a number of
non-credit Micro-Credentials as well.
However, it is in the area of credit-bearing Micro-Credentials that SUNY stands out as a
leader. Stony Brook was an early national as well as SUNY entrant into this area, and it
offers far more for-credit than non-credit Micro-Credentials. These are at the graduate
level, generally include 2-4 courses, can be applied to a larger graduate certificate or
degree, and offer students the opportunity to gain knowledge and skills without
committing to a full graduate program. The areas of study include Education, Business,
Health, and Human Services, and the 31 Micro-Credentials include Teaching
Adolescents, Educational Technology Curriculum Design, Diverse Literatures, Financial
Analysis, Food Literacy, and Employee Relations. To date the school has awarded
approximately 350 Micro-Credentials from these programs.
(https://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/spd/badges/index)
SUNY Buffalo has just begun to offer nine different Micro-Credentials, seven of which
are for-credit, 4 four of which are at the undergraduate level, three of which are at the
graduate level, and two of which are open to students at both levels. Topics include
Public Health Disparities, Child Advocacy Studies, Clinical Pharmacy Research,
Communications Campaigns, and Understanding Diversity Through Sociology.
(https://www.buffalo.edu/micro-credentials/offerings.html) The Hudson Valley
Educational Consortium, which consists of six community colleges and has a history of
innovation, has implemented a Micro-Credential that incorporates existing courses
offered by culinary and hospitality oriented AAS programs into a for-credit MicroCredential in Restaurant Management. Ulster Community College offers a 16 credit
Web Application Developer Micro-Credential, and has recently approved a for-credit
Micro-Credential n Accounting and Computer Skills, which combines four classes
offered by its Business program.

9

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
In addition to these ongoing programs, other SUNY institutions appear to be considering
offering Micro-Credentials. They have demonstrated their interest in Micro-Credentials
through their strong attendance at a SUNY workshop on Micro-Credentials held last
November in Saratoga Springs and participation in a series of FACT(2) webinars in the
Spring 2018. For example, SUNY Geneseo, another of the system’s comprehensive
colleges, is preparing to introduce Micro-Credentials soon, as is, closer to home, SUNY
Farmingdale. All of this activity led the SUNY Provosts’ office to issue a request for
information on pending programs during the early Fall of 2018.
3) The SUNY System and Micro-Credentials
Both a result of and an impetus to these initiatives is the interest shown by SUNY’s top
leadership and system administration. In October 2015, then-Chancellor Zimpfer
announced the creation of a SUNY Task Force on Micro-Credentials consisting of
“broad representation from across SUNY: presidents, provosts, faculty governance,
student governance, registrars, business officers, institutional researchers, and
continuing education officers.” (https://www.suny.edu/suny-news/pressreleases/october-2015/10-29-15-micro-credentials/ Task Force Report and
Recommendations, p. 1) It’s charge was to “review the current literature and growing
national dialogue on Micro‐Credentials, examine work currently underway across
SUNY’s 64 campuses to develop and/or implement Micro‐Credentials, and review
relevant SUNY policies” that might impact attempts to create them. It circulated a draft
report with recommendations to campuses for feedback in September of 2017 and, as
mentioned above, issued its final “Report and Recommendations” in January of 2018.
The SUNY Board of Trustees considered and endorsed this document at its January
2018 meeting, the SUNY Chancellor informed campuses shortly thereafter, and the
SUNY Provost’s office organized follow-up activities to support it, most notably the
creation of a website (http://system.suny.edu/academic-affairs/microcredentials/) and
the formation of four policy implementation teams focusing on Transferability and
Portability; Data Reporting; Policy and Financial Aid; and Readiness, Training, and
Assessment.
10

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

A result of all this activity has been a proliferation of statements about SUNY system
administration’s requirements, recommendations, expectations, and suggestions for
Micro-Credentials. However, review of the principle sources for SUNY policies reveals
a number of purposes, characteristics, and requirements, and recommendations they
have in common.
The principle sources for SUNY Policies are:
a) The Chancellor’s January 23, 2018 memo on SUNY Micro-Credentialing
Implementation, which includes the SUNY Board of Trustee’s Resolution.
b) The SUNY Provost’s cover email on February 7 for the Final Report of the
Micro-Credentialing Task Force and the SUNY Trustee Endorsement.
c) The January 2018 Report and Recommendations of the SUNY MicroCredentialing Task Force, including a Highlights and Notes document
circulated by the Provost and Excerpts included with the Chancellor’s memo.
d) The University Faculty Senate Resolution on Faculty Oversight of MicroCredentials.
e) Materials at the SUNY Academic Affairs Micro-Credentials website.
The Purposes these documents identify for Micro-Credentials include that they:
h) Certify skills for employers,
i) Motivate students toward completion,
j) Encourage students to explore and broaden their experience and skill sets,
k) Differentiate students in the job market,
l) Promote partnerships with industry/other educational institutions,
m) Provide short term competency training for professional development, and
n) Ladder from non-credit to credit and from stand-alone credential to degree
program.

11

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
The Characteristics they identify of Micro-Credentials include that they are:
a) Rigorous (“Academic quality is paramount” and they should be “meaningful
and high quality”);
b) Competency-based and verified;
c) Manifold (they can be credit bearing or non-credit bearing, a digital MicroCredential or industry credential, offered online, traditional, or hybrid);
d) Relevant (informed by current market data / align with industry standards);
e) Quick to create and modify;
f) Stackable;
g) Portable;
h) Innovative; and
i) Endorsed by the issuing campus and campus leadership.
j) They generally do not lead to licensure.
The Requirements that SUNY has set for Micro-Credentials are that:
h) Faculty governance participation is required:
i. to create Micro-Credentials as a category of campus-issued credentials
and
ii. to determine if a proposed Micro-Credential should be credit-bearing.
a. If so, established governance procedures must be used to approve it.
b. If not, faculty involvement should be as appropriate given the nature of
the credential (if it involves a skill for which faculty expertise is relevant,
faculty should be involved in its creation and implementation or
oversight; if not, the applicability of this requirement is unclear).
i) Like minors, Micro-Credentials are locally developed and approved:
i. as a category of credential and
ii. individual credentials
iii. consistent with SUNY policies and State and Federal regulations.

12

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
j) Cost, financial aid, learning outcomes, assessment and stackability must be
clearly delineated.
k) Non-credit articulation to credit must reflect learning outcomes, not experience
alone.
l) They must be portable to other SUNYs per SUNY Policy 1008 Transfer and
Articulation and MTP 13-3 Seamless Transfer.
m) They may not have same title as a registered program.
n) Tuition must be charged at the approved rate if they are credit-bearing.
Finally, in addition to the requirements that SUNY stipulates for Micro-Credentials, it
also makes a number of recommendations. It recommends that campuses:
1) Seek support and counsel from SUNY Program Review and Planning Office
and their System Program Reviewer;
2) Follow SUNY Micro-Credential Task Force definitions, taxonomy, guiding
principles, and recommendations;
3) Consider ACE Quality Dimensions for Connected Credentials (Transparency
(it is clear what they attest to), Modularity (stackability), Portability, Relevance
(they add tangible value for student), Validity (evidence is given for
effectiveness of skills they attest to), Equity (support is given so all students
have equal opportunity to succeed);
4) Record and Report Data (SIRUS);
5) Use SUNY readiness assessment tools (which a SUNY Working Group is
creating);
6) Allow for incorporation of Prior Learning via assessment;
7) Charge tuition at standard campus non-credit rate if the instruction or activity
is not credit-bearing;
8) Make a program that involves 24 or more credits a registered certificate rather
than a Micro-Credential.

13

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
C. Digital Infrastructures for Recording and Presenting Micro-Credentials
While there is no necessary connection between a credential recognizing some
achievement and the physical form that the credential takes, Micro-Credentials are so
strongly associated with online representations in social media that consideration
offering them inevitably leads to the question of whether they should be embodied in
this way. Furthermore, the creation of this class of credential has the potential to
multiply by several times the number of credentials the institution will offer, both the
quantity and number of different types of credentials.
There are at least three potential infrastructures for the recording and representation of
Micro-Credentials: ad hoc, existing institutional, and third-party.
What is meant by ad hoc is the use of general-purpose tools like Excel to create custom
databases to record Micro-Credentials that have been issued and similar tools like
Microsoft Publisher to create the actual physical representation that will be bestowed on
the recipient. The advantages of this approach are the low cost in terms of materials.
Stony Brook’s School of Professional Development uses an ad hoc method to
administer Micro-Credentials, and a third party to record and display them.
The possible disadvantages include the difficulty of keeping track of credentials issued,
both across campus and over time; the difficulty of integrating them with other student
records; and the difficulty of validating the representations of these credentials. The
disadvantages of this approach seem to outweigh the advantages so strongly that it will
not be further considered.
The existing institutional infrastructure for recording and auditing degree bearing
courses at Old Westbury includes Banner and Degree Works. Banner is currently used
to record for-credit activity earned by students at the College on their academic
transcript, while Degree Works is used to evaluate students’ academic records in terms
of degree requirements. Banner’s ability to incorporate Micro-Credentials into student
transcripts, and Degree Works’ ability to analyze students’ completion of their
14

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
requirements requires further research. Banner is capable of recording non-credit
activity as well, and there has been some consideration of creating co-curricular
transcripts using a third party.
Third-party infrastructures such as Credly are externally developed and maintained
tools designed to create and support Micro-Credentials. Most if not all such
infrastructures are web-based platforms and the leading ones conform to the Open
Badge Specifications pioneered by Mozilla with support from the MacArthur Foundation,
and now administered by IMS Global Learning Consortium. These platforms enable
issuers to create digital images representing Micro-Credentials, issue them to
individuals who have earned them, and link them to pages validating them in terms of
the learning they represent, the measures used to judge that that learning took place,
and the legitimacy of the issuer. While it would theoretically be possible for an institution
such as Old Westbury to create its own platform to perform these operations, as well as
maintain records of credentials issued, even venerable organizations like Microsoft and
Cisco, not to mention Open SUNY, use third party vendors for their certificates. The
advantage of using such vendors is thus the outsourcing of the complex tasks that
creating and maintaining the software needed to record and display the MicroCredentials in a way that is consistent with expectations about them involve. The
disadvantage may be the separation of Micro-Credentials from the student’s academic
record.
D) Micro-Credentials and Old Westbury
1) The Process of Consideration
Old Westbury’s institutional consideration of Micro-Credentials was set in motion when,
in September 2017, SUNY system administration circulated the SUNY MicroCredentials Task Force’s draft report. Provost O’Sullivan tasked Dr. Edward Bever,
Director of the School of Professional Studies, with monitoring SUNY’s emerging
policies related to Micro-Credentials. In keeping with SUNY’s emphasis on the
15

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
importance of involving Faculty Governance in them, Dr. Bever gave a report on them to
the Curriculum and Academic Planning committee at its October meeting. He gave a
second presentation to CAP at its March 9, 2018 meeting, this time in support of a
proposal by the School of Professional Studies to create the College’s first MicroCredential in Non-Profit Management involving two Professional Studies courses.
Since this proposal involved the creation of an entirely new credit-bearing credential by
the College, the CAP committee decided that rather than make a decision on it on its
own, it would hold a discussion of Micro-Credentials at its March 9 meeting and then
refer the matter to the Senate Executive committee so the faculty could consider the
matter as a body. The Chair of CAP conveyed a summary of CAP’s discussion along
with referral of the matter to the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee
arranged for Dr. Bever to give a presentation on Micro-Credentials to the Full Faculty
meeting on May 11, and then arranged for a Task Force to be formed of volunteers
representing the four Schools (2 SAS, 1 from each of the others), Academic Affairs,
Student Affairs, Student Government, Academic Advising, and the Registrar’s office.
The Executive Committee instructed the Task Force “to discuss the introduction of
Micro-Credentials at Old Westbury” in order to present “a proposal to CAP and the
Executive Committee of the Senate for subsequent approval by the Senate” addressing
the question “should Old Westbury allow Micro-Credentials? And if so, how?” (email
from Andrew Mattson, Chair of the Faculty Senate, to Deans, Chairs, Senators, Faculty,
and Administrators, May 15, 2018) The Task Force met on June 1 and elected Dr.
Anissa Lynch and Dr. Edward Bever co-chairs. It met again on June 14 and formed
four sub-groups to conduct research over the summer into the use and reception of
Micro-Credentials in SUNY and beyond, the potential infrastructures to record and
report Micro-Credentials earned, interest in the use of non-credit Micro-Credentials on
campus, and the framework for Micro-Credentials at Old Westbury provided by the
SUNY initiative, on the one hand, and the issues that CAP conveyed to the Executive
Committee, on the other. The sub-groups submitted reports on their results in early
August, and the Task Force met to discuss them and plan its activities for the Fall on
16

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
August 23. During September a draft of this proposal was prepared and circulated to
the members of the Task Force, who emailed comments and corrections and met to
discuss it on September 26. A revised version incorporating the comments, corrections,
and discussion was then prepared and, as agreed at the September 26 meeting,
circulated by email on October 10 for a “yea-or-nay” vote on the revised Proposal by
email that concluded on October 16 unanimously in favor of adopting it. The Proposal
was considered by CAP at its November 2 meeting, and CAP voted to support the
Proposal pending several changes that it stipulated. The changes were made, and the
document was circulated to the Task Force members by email on November 8 for a
“yea-or-nay” email vote on the further revised Proposal to be concluded on November
12. The revisions were approved unanimously except for one member who did not
respond to the email.
2) Issues and Answers
CAP’s discussion raised issues that call for two types of responses. One type of
response is information; the other is a decision. The issues raised will be presented
here, and information will be provided where appropriate. Where a decision is called
for, recommendations will be incorporated into the second part of this Proposal, the
Recommendations of the Task Force on how it thinks the College should proceed.
a) Micro-Credentials and the Mission and Vision of the College at Old Westbury
Old Westbury is a Comprehensive College with approximately 5,000 undergraduate and
graduate students in four Schools: Arts and Sciences, Business, Education, and
Professional Studies. It’s mission and vision are to serve as a regional academic leader
that provides a dynamic, high quality educational experience to help students grow
personally and prepare them “to embrace the social and environmental responsibilities
of our 21st century global community.” Consideration of the purposes for MicroCredentials put forth by SUNY and laid out above indicates that they will help fulfill the
College’s mission and vision in a variety of ways.
17

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

First and foremost is their motivational value. For credit-bearing work, by recognizing
student achievement beyond the scope of one course but more immediately than the
attainment of a four-year degree, they can provide an important motivation, an
attainable goal, for students to persist at their studies, and a sense of accomplishment
that can fuel further effort toward the degree. For non-credit work, because Old
Westbury enrolls a high proportion of commuter students with many commitments
outside of school, Micro-Credentials can provide a tangible reward that helps increase
participation in co-curricular activities and boost student engagement.
Micro-Credentials can not only motivate students to persist at courses of study and cocurricular activities they are already embarked on, but also to explore and broaden their
experiences and skill sets, another of the purposes SUNY identifies. Furthermore, while
the Micro-Credential can serve as a culminating reward for the students’ exploration,
since they are stackable they can draw students to ladder from a non-credit to a credit
program or from the Micro-Credential into a certificate or degree program, yet another of
the purposes SUNY identifies.
Our College Mission states that we are a “ dynamic and diverse public liberal arts
college”. The goals of Micro-Credentials at both the undergraduate and graduate level
align with the social justice mission of SUNY Old Westbury and its mission of being a
“dynamic and diverse public liberal arts college” because Micro-Credentials are being
developed to reflect the demand for training in specific competences that will help make
our students readily employable.
Micro-Credentials’ can differentiate Old Westbury students in the job market by
highlighting specific skills and competencies to potential employers not only upon
completion of the degree, but also while still studying, to help them get internships and
better jobs. Where appropriate, the Micro-Credentials can be developed in partnership
with industry or other educational institutions, but they can also more attest to skills and
competencies employers value more generally.
18

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Micro-Credentials can enhance the educational experience of students already
matriculated at Old Westbury, but also can attract and reward non-matriculated
students. At the graduate level, Micro-Credentials provide opportunities for students
who would not otherwise be considered for admission to our master’s programs
because they do not meet admissions criteria a pathway to a earning a graduate degree
from SUNY Old Westbury. This not only opens a potential new source of students for
the College, but also creates a new relationship between it and the community more
tailored to the 21st century, with its declining pool of 18-22 year olds and rising need for
continuous, or at least periodic, upgrading of skills and retraining of adults, thus fulfilling
its commitment to be a “dynamic … regional academic leader”. And, once again,
stackable Micro-Credentials can draw such students to ladder from a non-credit to a
credit program or from the Micro-Credential into a certificate or degree program.
When Dr. Bever attended the CAP meeting, members raised questions of whether
adding additional sections of or new courses so the College can offer Micro-Credentials
would lead to an increase in the number of courses taught by adjuncts and if so, how
this would support social justice. At this point in time, the Sample Micro-Credential
Proposals contain courses within exiting majors and programs that are taught by current
faculty and adjuncts. The Task Force is unable to address future staffing needs and
how those would be addressed since these issues would be addressed on a case-bycase basis and would be factored into the department’s decision to propose and faculty
governance to approve (or not) Micro-Credentials.
In sum, Micro-Credentials motivational value can enhance both the academic and the
co-curricular experiences of students, encouraging them to persist and explore, while
leading them to develop specific skills and competencies to help open doors to positions
in the economy and society where they can carry out the responsibilities Old Westbury
has prepared them for.

19

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

b) The Marketability of Micro-Credentials
The extent to which Micro-Credentials will help open doors for students is another issue
raised in the discussion in CAP. Since Micro-Credentials are a very recent
development, there is very little systematic research on the extent to which employers
recognize and value them. Assessment of their potential to help students thus must
currently rest on more informal evidence and logical consideration of their potential.
First of all, it should be recognized that in some industries digital Micro-Credentials are
already well established and highly valued. In the technology sector, in particular, longstanding Cisco and Microsoft certifications are now available as digital MicroCredentials, for example, making this type of certification a highly valued form of
recognition. IBM, Adobe, Citrix, and other denizens of Silicone Valley also award digital
Micro-Credentials to recognize completion of their internal training programs. However,
digital Micro-Credentials are not just being used by computer companies. They are
being used to certify internal training by businesses further afield like Verizon, Disney,
and Home Depot. Professions in which regular professional development is required
like accounting are seeing increased use and recognition of them, particularly at the
graduate level. On another level, District Council 37, New York City’s largest publicsector union, began offering Micro-Credentials for completion of its Education Fund’s
education and training programs in June 2018.
Beyond this spreading use of digital Micro-Credentials in businesses themselves, there
is some face validity to the concept in that students may be able to ‘package’
themselves better for specific employment opportunities if the Micro-Credentials make
specific training/skills more visible to potential employers or open up career pathways
where those skills and competencies add value. This logic was backed up, at least
informally, by a phone survey conducted by the Assistant Director of the School of
Professional Studies. He phoned twenty companies at random and asked to speak with
their Human Resources department or hiring manager. Four agreed to speak with him,
20

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
and they were uniformly positive about the potential of Micro-Credentials. One said it
sounded like a minor, and that would be a good idea, while the other three related it to
their ability to screen candidates more quickly, saying that it would save time and
increase their ability to identify qualified candidates. One volunteered that even for a
receptionist position, if a candidate “had a credential” in a pertinent skill, “they would be
considered ahead of non-credentialed applicants.”
Finally, the effects of SUNY’s endorsement of Micro-Credentials itself must be
considered. The fact that System Administration is actively fostering their use and
promoting partnerships with businesses will likely increase their visibility to and
acceptance by the business community in New York. This enhances both the likelihood
that they will be marketable and also that students seeking employment who don’t have
them will be less marketable.
c) Financial Aid
Currently, most financial aid is for full-time work toward the requirements for a degree,
and there is increasing emphasis on completing specific requirements like General
Education and major requirements before taking electives. This is already problematic
for students’ ability to pursue a minor since their courses are considered general college
electives for financial aid purposes. The same issue will be raised by courses taken by
matriculated students toward Micro-Credentials.
However, one of the SUNY Provost’s Micro-Credentialing Implementation Groups is
entitled “Policy/Financial Aid Implementation Group,” has among its members the SUNY
System’s Director of Student Financial Aid Services, and is charged with providing
“additional guidance related to tuition and fees, and also financial aid.” (SUNY website).
The most updated information and guidance provided by this group to SUNY Financial
Aid Directors follows:
State and Federal Financial Aid
21

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
Eligibility requirements for State and federally administered financial aid programs are
statutory and regulatory and governed by the New York State Education Department
(some programs rules are governed by HESC) and the US Department of Education
respectively. Both State and federal financial aid programs require students to be
matriculated in an approved program of study.
Enrollment Status
State financial aid programs: full-time study requirement - a student must be enrolled in
credit-bearing courses applicable to their approved program of study, for at least 12
semester hours for a semester not less than 15 weeks or 100 days, inclusive of
examination periods. Part-time awards require the student to be enrolled in creditbearing courses applicable to the student program of study for the same timeframe.
Federal financial aid programs: require a student to be enrolled or accepted for
enrollment in an eligible institution for the purpose of obtaining a degree or certificate
offered by the school. FSA’s minimum standards for full-time enrollment require an
undergraduate to enroll in 12 semester hours in a (approved) program per semester. A
student must be enrolled at least half-time to be eligible for Direct student
loans. Enrollment status affects the amount of Pell a student receives. If a student is
enrolled in courses that do not count toward his degree, certificate, or other recognized
credential, they cannot be used to determine enrollment status unless they are eligible
remedial courses. Regular (matriculated) students may receive FSA funds for
Continuing Education if the courses apply to their degree or certificate program.
Non-credit bearing Micro-Credentials
Noncredit-bearing Micro-Credentials (MC) do not meet the requirements to be aid
eligible (State and Federal) and cannot be used to meet the full-time requirement for
financial aid. Any noncredit Micro-Credential course-work must be taken above the 12
credit minimum requirement for full-time.
As with full-time awards, noncredit-bearing Micro-Credentials are not eligible for State or
federal part-time aid awards.
22

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Credit Bearing Micro-Credentials included in the Approved Program of Study
Credit-bearing Micro-Credentials, depending on how they are approved and
applied, may be eligible for State and/or federal financial aid programs.
Credit bearing Micro-Credentials that are part of the approved program are eligible for
both State and federal financial aid administered programs.
Credit-bearing Micro-Credentials that are not part of an approved program, are not aid
eligible, however if the student has available electives, credit-bearing Micro-Credentials
can be slotted in and are eligible for aid. If the student has satisfied all electives, MicroCredential cannot be used in the 12 credit minimum requirement for full-time, and will
not be eligible for aid and must be taken above the 12 credit minimum.
d) Resource Demands of Administering Micro-Credentials
Adding a new type of credential to the mix of degrees, minors and credentials currently
offered by the College, particularly one that consists of fewer courses, that can stack
towards (and thus nest within) a larger credentials, and that students will potentially be
encouraged to take both to broaden and deepen their certifiable competencies will
undoubtedly increase the demands on many of the administrative offices. In particular:
i.

Registrar: The Registrar’s office is the one that will undoubtedly experience the
biggest impact from the adoption of credit bearing Micro-Credentials. Adding
Micro-Credentials has the potential to increase the number of degrees conferred
and credentials and certificates earned on our campus significantly. The number
of individual degrees conferred and credentials and certificates earned would
also increase correspondingly. Specific recommendations for how to handle this
at Old Westbury are given in the Recommendations Section below.

ii.

Enrollment Services: Enrollment Services will not only need to understand the
new credentials and what the ways that they can help recruit new students, but
23

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
also be ready to recruit non-traditional students on non-traditional recruitment
timelines for shorter enrollment periods.
iii.

Academic Advising: Advisors will need to be versed not only in the opportunities
that the new credentials represent for students, but also the potential difficulties
they will present in terms of meeting financial aid requirements.

iv.

Financial Aid: Will need to handle increased inquiries about aid for non-traditional
and for non-matriculated students as well as monitoring the compliance to
regular aid requirements by matriculated students pursuing Micro-Credentials.

e) Implications for Academic Programs
CAP raised a number of questions relating to possible impacts on existing Academic
Programs. The Task Force’s best answers are given after each in italics.
i

Would additional resources be required for offering Programs/Departments? In
general terms, students who pursue Micro-Credentials would enroll in existing
courses where space is available. Staffing and strains on academic resources
would not be greatly affected since these courses already exist, have instructors
assigned, classroom space, etc. Specific issues related to staffing and resources
would be determined on a case-by-case basis, and the answer would be factored
into the program’s decision to propose the Micro-Credential and Governance’s
decision whether to approve it.
a How do Micro-Credentials impact support for existing majors? There is no
reason to expect that Micro-Credentials will impact existing majors
significantly, except to possibly attract students who wouldn’t consider the
major to try out a limited set of offerings and based on that experience
possibly go on in it.
b How does a Micro-Credential program impact enrollment in existing
majors? Minors? The answer to the previous bullet point addresses the
question about majors. As for minors, some students may take a MicroCredential rather than a minor, but many of those taking Micro-Credentials
24

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
will be students who couldn’t have taken a minor anyway, and some of
them will presumably go on from the Micro-Credential to the minor since
they are stackable.
ii

Does the Micro-Credential devalue existing majors? Minors? There is no reason
to think Micro-Credentials will devalue existing majors, and they may be entrypoints to some for students who wouldn’t otherwise consider trying them out. As
for minors, some students may prefer Micro-Credentials over minors because
they are more manageable and/or because they offer more immediate and
tangible rewards, but since they are stackable they may also lead students to
complete the minor before graduating to have the larger credential on their
record.

iii Would Micro-Credentials require hiring additional faculty? This is a resource
issue that would be decided on a case-by-case basis and would be factored into
department’s decisions to propose and Governance’s decision to approve the
Micro-Credential.
iv Does this increase adjunct/full faculty ratios? Again, this is a resource issue that
departments will need to consider before proposing them and Governance will
need to consider before approving them.
v Does this impact faculty teaching loads? No.
vi Since there will be a need to ensure Micro-Credential coursework can be
completed in timely manner, courses related to Micro-Credential will need to be
offered in specified rotations. How does this affect delivery of curriculum for
existing majors? This would be something departments will need to consider
before proposing a Micro-Credential and Governance will need to consider
before approving them.
f) Other Issues raised by CAP
The following are issues that do not fit neatly into above categories or are implied by
issues raised by CAP. As with e), above, the issue is stated here first, and the Task
Force’s response is then given in italics.
25

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

i.

Should Micro-Credentials be credit-bearing? Non-credit bearing? Curricular?
Non-curricular? This is a policy issue, not an informational one. The Task
Force’s recommendations are given below.

ii.

Should Micro-Credentials be considered only for undergraduate programs or only
for graduate programs? This is a policy issue, not an informational one. The
Task Force’s recommendations are given below.

iii.

Do graduate Micro-Credentials hold similar benefits in terms of ‘marketability’?
Stony Brook’s experience suggests that graduate level Micro-Credentials are
quite marketable.

iv.

Should Micro-Credentials be tied to specific Departments/Programs? If not, how
will they be managed? This issue is similar to the management of
Interdisciplinary Minors and raises similar resource allocation issues. This is a
policy issue, not an informational one. The Task Force’s recommendations are
given below.

v.

Micro-Credentials are more obvious for some programs/disciplines than for
others, especially at the graduate levels. Which Departments/Programs would
want to pursue Micro-Credentials? This is a decision that individual
departments/programs can best answer.

vi.

Can we use Micro-Credentials as a method to reach out to community partners?
Can we develop Micro-Credentials with a community partner in mind, such as a
non-profit organization? What are the dangers of tying a program to an external
partner? Similar dangers exist as with the establishment of other types of
partnerships and would be managed on a case-by-case basis. It seems that
indeed Micro-Credentials could be a way to establish community partnerships
and in fact that is one of the purposes specified by SUNY for offering MicroCredentials.

vii.

Should the College issue digital Micro-Credentials? The Task Force’s specific
recommendations are given below.

26

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
viii.

Are Micro-Credentials available for non-matriculating students? This is a policy
issue, not an informational one. The Task Force’s recommendations are given
below.

ix.

Should transfer classes be countable toward Micro-Credentials? This is a policy
issue, not an informational one. The Task Force’s recommendations are given
below.

3) Micro-Credentials and the Strategic Plan
Micro-Credentials are discussed specifically in two places in the Strategic Plan’s
Implementation Plan:
Goal 2, Promote Academic Excellence, Objective B: Enrich/Optimize Academic
Offerings, Strategy 1, Analyze the current state of the academic programs at the
College, identify areas for developing new academic programs, continue support
for previously established high growth/needs areas … and formulate a set of
guiding principles for future academic program development, Part C, Possible
future programs, and
Goal 4, Objective A, Strategy 4, Develop new, sustainable revenue streams, item 1.
Create and Implement Certificate and Micro-Credential Programs (referencing
Goal 2, Objective G, Strategy 1).
In addition the foregoing discussion suggests that Micro-Credentials can contribute
significantly to a number of other Goals and Objectives. Specifically, use of MicroCredentials can contribute to:
Goal 1, Foster Student Success

27

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
Objective A: Improve Student Retention and Completion, by creating a more
immediate and tangible reward structure for students’ progress through the four
year Bachelors program.
Objective C: Strengthen Students’ College Experience, by creating an incentive
and reward for student participation in co-curricular activities.
Goal 4, Strengthen Institutional Effectiveness
Objective B: Raise Campus Profile, by drawing to campus members of the Long
Island community who would not otherwise have any reason to come to campus.

II. Recommendations
A. Considerations
1) Reasons to Offer Micro-Credentials
The foregoing discussion suggests that there will be a variety of benefits to students
and to the College from offering Micro-Credentials. Students will benefit from:
a) the motivation to move toward completion they can provide,
b) the employable skills they will cultivate and certify,
c) the rewards for exploration they will bestow (a stand-alone certification for
accomplishment or entre into an area of study they would not have investigated
otherwise), and
d) one or more manageable secondary specializations (in light of requirements for
degree completion and/or financial aid).
The College will benefit from:

28

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
a) higher completion rates,
b) the ability to offer enhanced academic and co-curricular experiences to students,
c) new, sustainable revenue streams from non-matriculated students
d) increase enrollments from non-matriculated students who ladder into degree
programs,
e) a new form of credential it can add programs to or remove them from purely on
its own initiative, without having to get approval from SUNY System
Administration or the State Education Department
2) Potential Problems from Offering Micro-Credentials
However, there are some potentially problematic issues raised by offering MicroCredentials. These include:
a) Uncertain student interest,
b) Uncertain financial aid support,
c) Uncertain marketability,
d) Uncertain impact on existing academic programs,
e) Costs of supporting them administratively,
f) Fact that the Strategic Plan calls for them to be considered in the context of an
overall assessment of the College’s academic offerings, including creation of
guiding principles for developing new programs.
B. Recommendation:
Weighing the numerous benefits that offering Micro-Credentials could bring against the
various potentially problematic issues that they raise, the Micro-Credential Task Force
recommends that the College begin offering Micro-Credentials under the following
terms:

29

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
1) Since credit-bearing Micro-Credentials are similar to minors in being campusdefined and governed credentials, proposals for Micro-Credentials will be
modeled on the existing proposal structure for Minors at the campus. Programs
proposing to offer them will submit a proposal to CAP with sections explaining
their Purpose, the Demand for them, and their Resource needs, but with
additional sections reflecting the SUNY requirements enumerated above
including:
a. Specification of the learning outcomes the Micro-Credentials will accomplish
b. Criteria by which students will be judged to have met them
c. Potential for financial aid
d. Cost
e. Stackability
f. Potential portability and
g. that the titles for Micro-Credentials are not the same as those of existing
programs.
2) Students will need to apply for a Micro-Credential they are eligible for in order to
earn the credential.
3) A third-party vendor like Credly will be contracted to provide the infrastructure to
support the Micro-Credentials. Support of the Micro-Credentials will consist of
providing a platform capable of:
a. Designing the visual representation of the credential as a clickable icon,
b. Displaying validating information on Old Westbury, the program bestowing the
Micro-Credential, and the skills that were demonstrated in order to achieve it,
c. Recording the recipients of the Micro-Credential,
d. Informing the recipients of their credential and providing links and instructions
for displaying it online,
e. Maintaining records of all recipients of all Micro-Credentials earned at the
College, and
f. Providing access to these records, as well as the visual representations and
validating information for all the College’s Micro-Credentials.

30

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
4) The creation of the infrastructure to support Micro-Credentials will be
administered by the School of Professional Studies in conjunction with Academic
Affairs and the Registrar’s office.
5) Proposed timeline:
a. 11/16/2018: CAP introduces Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal with
resolution to adopt to Faculty Senate.
b. 12/7/2018: Senate votes on CAP resolution.
c. 12/2018: If adopted Proposal, submitted to College administration for
endorsement.
d. Spring 2019: Contract platform vendor and set up technological and
administrative infrastructure.
e. Spring 2019: Programs begin submitting proposals for Micro-Credentials to
CAP.

31

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Appendices

Appendix A
Micro-Credential Task Force members
Co-Chairs: Edward Bever (SPS) and Anissa Wicktor Lynch (SOE)
Jamie Jones (Student Affairs)
Jon Kleinman (Advising)
Cary Lange (SOB)
Joe Manfredi (ASMC/Student Media)
Runi Mukherji (SAS)
Duncan Quarless (AA)
Evan Rufrano/ Atqiya Syed (SGA)
Regina Scarbrough (Registrar)
Pat Smith (Registrar)

32

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Appendix B
Draft Catalog Entry

MICRO-CREDENTIALS
General Information
A Micro-Credential certifies that a student has attained a specified competency or skill set,
generally by completing a group of 2 to 4 related courses with a grade of B or better. The
courses can be at the undergraduate or graduate level; can be taken within or outside a
student’s major, minor, or degree program; and the Micro-Credential can be awarded to nonmatriculated as well as matriculated students. Upon completion of a Micro-Credential’s
requirements, students will be issued a digital icon from a Micro-Credential platform that can
be embedded in social media (e.g. LinkedIn) and electronic résumés. These icons will be linked
to pages with validating information. Micro-Credentials allow students to study topics that
broaden their experiences and skill sets and highlight specific competencies gained through
coursework and activities when applying for employment or further study.
Following is a list of available micro-credentials, with descriptions and specific requirements of
each:

33

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

APPENDIX C
SAMPLE MICRO-CREDENTIAL PROPOSALS

(Note that these proposals are included as examples
of possible Micro-Credentials. They have been discussed
but not formally endorsed by their respective programs.)

34

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
_____________________________________________________________________

MEMORANDUM
TO:
FROM:
SUBJ:
DATE:

Chair, CAP Committee
Edward Bever, Director, School of Professional Studies
DRAFT Proposal for Micro-Credential in Management of Non-Profits
October 9, 2018

____________________________________________________________________________

A. Purpose
The Micro-Credential in Management of Non-Profits is designed for students holding or
aspiring to leadership positions in non-profit organizations. Its courses cultivate the
basic skills and competences needed to manage the administrative, financial, and
governance aspects of non-profits. The Micro-Credential will be available to currently
enrolled students as well as members of the larger Long Island community with a desire
to gain certified enhancement their skills in these area.
B. Demand
The New York/Long Island region is home to thousands of non-profit organizations that
provide a wide variety of invaluable services to the community. In the five eastern-most
towns of Suffolk County alone there are “over 1,075 registered nonprofit organizations
that provide basic needs, leadership on sustainability and environmental issues,
preservation and presentation of arts and culture, and educational support.” 1 To provide
these services, the non-profits employ over 100,000 people and pay over $5,000,000 in
wages and salaries.2 To maintain their staffing, non-profits on Long Island collectively
recruit hundreds of new employees at any one time: currently one online jobs site lists
4,778 jobs in non-profits within 25 miles of Old Westbury (including New York City) and
450 within 15 miles of campus.3 A second site concurs, with 454 jobs listed within 15
miles of Old Westbury, and 356 of them are full-time.4
In terms of employer demand for the specific skills and competencies certified by the
Micro-Credential, the two courses it will include, Nonprofit Stewardship and Financial
Administration of Nonprofits, were designed by the consultants contracted to help create
the Congregational Leadership minor, one of whom managed several congregations
over the course of 15 years and ended his career as the executive director of the Long
Island Council of Churches, the other of whom earned an MBA from Malloy College with
a specialization in non-profit management and has since held several management
positions in non-profit organizations. In addition, an informal telephone survey was
conducted with administrators at randomly selected non-profits, and of the four who
http://www.aftee.org/not-for-profits/. Accessed 3/2/18.
Long Island’s Not-For-Profit Sector: Doing More with Less During a Period of Economic Change”, The
Long Island Association, Inc., June, 2011, p. 6. Available at
http://www.licf.org/Portals/0/Uploads/Documents/latest_non_profit_study_lo_res.pdf. Accessed 3/2/18.
3 https://www.indeed.com/q-Non-Profit-l-Long-Island,-NY-jobs.html. Accessed 3/2/18.
4 https://www.simplyhired.com/search?q=non-profit&l=long+island%2C+ny&job=YwNI00OgViaDLTSTyTwV8cdsR_AUEI8FtFPkVRtapYZPQpA6P0xA. Accessed 3/2/18.

1
2

35

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
agreed to respond, all agreed that the Micro-Credential would be helpful to both
distinguish a candidate and make the selection process more efficient. As one said, “it
would help the candidate to have the credential and could make the hiring process go
more quickly.”
Considering Old Westbury’s venerable commitment to promoting social justice and
community engagement, it seems natural that the College would support students’
ability to translate their good intentions into effective action.
C. Resources
Courses offered by the School of Professional Studies for the Micro-Credential are
already being offered as part of the Congregational Leadership minor, which populates
them enough to sustain them but not to fill them. These classes are scheduled on the
weekends, when the physical facilities of the College are under-utilized, and they are
taught by adjunct faculty, so instructional costs are modest and easily met on a classby-class basis. These courses also serve as major electives in the BPS in Professional
Studies program.
D. Cost, Financial Aid, Stackability, and Portability
Since the Management of Non-Profits Micro-Credential will involve two for-credit
courses, the cost will be the regular per-credit cost for these. Financial aid will be
available for matriculated students who take the two classes as part of their degree
program (similar to a minor), but not for non-matriculated students. The MicroCredential will be stackable to the minor in Congregational Leadership and one class
can count as the major elective for students in the BPS in Professional Studies
program. Students will be able to apply one transferred course toward the MicroCredential, but will need to take at least one course at Old Westbury. The courses it
includes are regular for-credit Old Westbury classes, and therefore will be transferrable
to other SUNY institutions normally. Information about these items will be included in all
marketing materials publicizing this.
E. Title
The name “Management of Non-Profits” is not the title of any registered degree or
certificate program.
F. Assessment
The Micro-Credential will be assessed along with the other programs of the School of
Professional Studies as part of its regular five year reviews.
G. Additional Materials
Following is catalog copy for the Micro-Credential, modeled on the catalog copy for
minors.

36

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Management of Non-Profits Micro-Credential - DRAFT
Sponsoring school: Professional Studies
The Micro-Credential in Management of Non-Profits is designed for students holding or
aspiring to leadership positions in non-profit organizations. It consists of two courses,
one on the managerial and the other on financial issues that leaders of nonprofit
organizations face. Students successfully completing the requirements of the MicroCredential will be prepared to help manage a nonprofit organization’s operations,
finances, and planning.

Requirements
Students are required to take 8 credits by completing both of the following courses with
a grade of B or higher:
PS3625
PS4630

Nonprofit Stewardship
Financial Administration of Nonprofits

4 credits
4 credits

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students who complete these courses at the stipulated level will:
Understand the role and structure of the nonprofit sector in contemporary society.
Know the management issues that arise within nonprofit organizations and how to
use this knowledge to successfully lead one.
Understand public governance and how to participate in and contribute to public
policy-making as a leader of a nonprofit organization.
Have a knowledge of basic accounting principles, financial statements, financial
planning processes, and audit and reporting requirements as they pertain to
nonprofit organizations.
Demonstrate an ability to use that knowledge to perform basic analyses of
nonprofits’ finances and use them in operations and planning.
Be able to communicate this knowledge and the results of these analyses to
organizational leadership, board members, and community stakeholders.

Other Considerations
At most one of the two classes can be transferred from another institution. Both classes
can count toward the Congregational Leadership minor, and one can count as the major
elective in the BPS in Professional Studies major.
37

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
______________________________________________________________________

MEMORANDUM
TO:
FROM:

Chair, CAP Committee
Runi Mukherji, Professor, Psychology
Marty Cooper, Assistant Professor, Psychology/Mental Health Counseling
SUBJ:
DRAFT Proposal for Micro-Credential in Foundational Counseling Skills
DATE:
September 19, 2018
______________________________________________________________________
A. Purpose
The Micro-Credential in Foundational Counseling Skills is designed for students
considering professions that require interviewing/intake skills or those seeking to pursue
the licensed or certified counseling professions. The course sequence is designed to
engage students in basic interviewing and preliminary assessment skills, which are
foundational and required by our own and many other mental health counseling
graduate programs. The knowledge obtained from this Micro-Credential may be
required to obtain internships during their academic studies or counseling-related jobs
during or after their undergraduate degree. These skills are also applicable to many
other career pathways such as social work, and many health-related service delivery
settings. The Micro-Credential will be available to currently enrolled students as well as
members of the larger Long Island community with a desire to gain certified
enhancement their skills in this specific area.
B. Demand
Health Resources & Services Association (HRSA, 2018) suggests that the demand for
mental health counselors will grow by 15% between 2013 and 2025. The Bureau of
Labor Statistics (BLS, 2018) suggests a 23% increase in demand. Regardless, of which
statistics we utilize the increased demand for counselors is evident. The national
median income, according to BLS (2017), is $43,860. The US Department of Labor
suggests that the growth in Mental Health Counseling in New York is expected to be
25%, exceeding the national growth rate. Their findings also suggest that the median
income in New York is $44,390 with a salary range between $27,320 and $74,160.
C. Resources
All courses required for the Micro-Credential are regularly offered courses in the
Psychology department. Any additional resources would be dependent on the demand
for additional sections of each course.
D. Cost, Financial Aid, Stackability, and Portability
Since the Foundational Counseling Skills Micro-Credential will involve three for-credit
courses, the cost will be the regular per-credit cost for these. Financial aid will be
available for matriculated students who take the three classes as part of their degree
program (similar to a minor), but not for non-matriculated students.

38

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
The Foundational Counseling Skills Micro-Credential will be stackable to the B.A. and
B.S. in Psychology, with PY 3310 counting as the Group B Platform Elective, PY 3311
counting as a 3000/4000-level Elective, and PY 4320 counting as the 4000-level
Elective. The Micro-Credential will be stackable to the Psychology minor, with PY 3310
or PY 3311 filling one Part B requirement and PY 4320 fulfilling the other Part B
requirement and the minor’s 4000-level course requirement as well. The MicroCredential will not be stackable to the Neuropsychology Minor.
Students will be able to apply one transferred course toward the Micro-Credential, but
will need to take the other two at Old Westbury. The courses it includes are regular forcredit Old Westbury classes, and therefore will be transferrable to other SUNY
institutions normally. Information about these items will be included in all marketing
materials publicizing this .
E. Title
The name “Foundational Counseling Skills” is not the title of any registered degree or
certificate program.
F. Assessment
The Micro-Credential will be assessed along with the other programs of the Psychology
Department as part of its regular five-year reviews.
F. Additional Materials
Following is catalog copy for the Micro-Credential, modeled on the catalog copy for
minors.

39

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Micro-Credential in Foundational Counseling Skills
Sponsoring Department: Psychology
The Micro-Credential in Foundational Counseling Skills is designed for students
planning to work in, or applying for, post-baccalaureate educational or training programs
in counseling and other mental health-related service delivery professions, and in
professional settings.
Students successfully completing the requirements of the Micro-Credential will be have
the competency and skills required for basic interviewing and intake in mental health
and counseling service delivery professions and professional settings.

Requirements
Students are required to take 12 credits by completing both of the following courses with
a grade of B or higher:
PY 3311 Theories of Personality
PY 3310 Abnormal Psychology
PY 4320 Counseling Psychology

4 credits
4 credits
4 credits

Skills and Competencies
Students who complete these courses at the stipulated level will:
The student will be able to state, describe, and demonstrate an understanding of
the process of the identification of personality traits, the assessment of
personality as well as understand personality disorders.
The student will be able to recognize the symptoms of major categories of mental
illness and other forms of abnormal behavior and be able to identify potential
diagnoses using the current major systems of diagnosis.
The student will develop basic ideas and issue description skills, to include
defining the basic ideas and issues, describing competing ideas and issues,
and the ability to consider and evaluate multiple points of view with regard to the
various schools of thought and different kinds of psychotherapy.
The student will demonstrate the ability to consider issues of diversity including
race, ethnicity, gender, class, sexual orientation, religion and disability in the
study of personality.
The student will demonstrate the ability to consider issues of diversity including
race, ethnicity, gender, class, sexual orientation, religion and disability in the
identification of abnormality and mental illness.
The student will demonstrate the ability to consider issues of diversity including
race, ethnicity, gender, class, sexual orientation, religion and disability in
providing psychotherapies.
40

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
The student will develop the skills to interview and provide preliminary
assessments for interventions.

Other Considerations
At most one of the Foundational Counseling Skills Micro-Credential’s three classes can
be transferred from another institution. The Foundational Counseling Skills MicroCredential will be stackable to the B.A. or B.S. in Psychology, with PY 3310 counting as
the Group B Platform Elective, PY 3311 counting as a 3000/4000-level Elective, and PY
4320 counting as the 4000-level Elective. The Micro-Credential will be stackable to the
Psychology minor, with PY 3310 or PY 3311 filling one of the minor’s Section B
requirement and PY 4320 fulfilling the other Section B requirement and the minor’s
4000-level course requirement as well. The Micro-Credential will not be stackable to
the Neuropsychology Minor..

41

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
______________________________________________________________________

MEMORANDUM
To:
From:
Subj:
Date:

Chair, CAP Committee
Cary Lange, Director, School of Business Graduate Programs
Proposal for Micro-Credential in Business Taxation
September 25, 2018

A. Purpose
The Micro-Credential in Business Taxation is designed for individuals that are in, or are
aspiring to be in, the field of taxation. The courses in this Micro-Credential will allow
students to gain a solid grounding in business taxation. The Micro-Credential will be
available to individuals with an undergraduate degree in accounting, who want to
expand their portfolio of skills, but who may not yet be ready to commit to a full graduate
program. Those individual with an undergraduate degree in a discipline other than
accounting may undertake the credential upon completion of specified prerequisites
prior to beginning the Micro-Credential program.
B. Demand
The New York State Department of Labor estimates that annual job growth in the field of
accounting & auditing will be between 10% and 20% on Long Island and in New York City.
Moreover, the workforce demand for such openings is reinforced by the 2014-2015 SUNY High
Needs Program identifying accountants and auditors as a high need area with annual average
openings in New York State projected to reach almost 3,600. Due to its close proximity to New
York City, Old Westbury is fortunate to be in a geographic area containing hundreds of
accounting and financial institutions with a demand for employees trained in accounting. The
courses in this Micro-Credential can also be used to meet the 150 credit hour requirement
necessary for licensure as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) in New York State. In addition,
CPAs can use courses offered in the Micro-Credential program to fulfill their continuing
professional education (CPE) requirements. SUNY College at Old Westbury is an accredited
NYS CPE sponsor (#0002067). CPA’s will receive 45 CPE credits in taxation for each course
successfully completed.

C. Resources
Courses offered by the School of Business Graduate Programs for this Micro-Credential
program are already being offered as part of the Master of Science in Taxation program.
Therefore, there will be no additional resources required to implement this program.

D. Cost, Financial Aid, Stackability, and Portability
Since the Business Taxation Micro-Credential will involve three for-credit courses,
the cost will be the regular per-credit cost for these. Financial aid is generally not
available for graduate programs, although full-time students with loans will be able to
use them to pay for these courses if they are part of their degree requirements. The
Micro-Credential will be stackable to Old Westbury’s M.S. in Taxation. Students
42

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
must take all three courses from Old Westbury. The courses it includes are regular
for-credit Old Westbury classes, and therefore will be transferrable to other SUNY
institutions according to their relevant policies. Information about these items will be
included in all marketing materials publicizing this program.
E. Title
The name “Business Taxation” is not the title of any registered degree or certificate
program.
F. Assessment
The Micro-Credential will be assessed along with the other programs in the School
of Business’ Graduate Program as part of its regular reviews.
G. Additional Materials
Following is catalog copy for the Micro-Credential, modeled on the catalog copy for
minors.

43

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Business Taxation Micro-Credential – DRAFT
Sponsoring School: School of Business Graduate Programs
The Micro-Credential in Business Taxation is designed for individuals that are in, or are
aspiring to be in, the field of taxation. It consist of three courses: one giving an overview
and grounding in the basics of business taxation, the second dealing with the taxation of
pass-through entities, and the third covering corporate liquidations and reorganizations.
Students successfully completing the requirements for the Micro-Credential in business
taxation will have a solid education in business taxation and will be prepared to work in
the tax department of public accounting firms or other business organizations.

Requirements
Students are required to take 9 credits by completing all three of the following courses
with a grade of B or higher:
BU7570 Tax for Corporate Managers
BU7572 Taxation of S Corps, Partnerships, and LLCs
BU7575 Taxation of Reorganizations & Liquidations

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students who complete these courses at the required level will:
Demonstrate a broad and in depth knowledge of business taxation principles,
theories and practice. This knowledge should enable students to develop solutions
to complex issues utilizing critical thinking skills.
Be prepared to become socially responsible business leaders able to recognize
ethical dilemmas and achieve resolutions in a socially and professionally
responsible manner.
Understand the role of taxation in business and society.
Be able to communicate this knowledge effectively.

Other Considerations
All three classes must be taken at Old Westbury. All three can count toward Old
Westbury’s MS in Taxation

44

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
______________________________________________________________________

MEMORANDUM
To:
From:
Subj:
Date:

Chair, CAP Committee
Cary Lange, Director, School of Business Graduate Programs
Proposal for Micro-Credential in Estate, Gift & Trust Taxation
September 25, 2018

A. Purpose
The Micro-Credential in Estate, Gift & Trust Taxation is designed for individuals that
are in, or are aspiring to be in, the specialized field of estate, gift & trust taxation. The
courses in this Micro-Credential will allow students to gain a solid grounding in this
specialized field. The Micro-Credential will be available to individuals with an
undergraduate degree in accounting, who want to expand their portfolio of skills, but
who may not yet be ready to commit to a full graduate program. Those individual with
an undergraduate degree in a discipline other than accounting may undertake the
credential upon completion of specified prerequisites prior to beginning the MicroCredential program.
B. Demand
The New York State Department of Labor estimates that annual job growth in the field of
accounting & auditing will be between 10% and 20% on Long Island and in New York City.
Moreover, the workforce demand for such openings is reinforced by the 2014-2015 SUNY High
Needs Program identifying accountants and auditors as a high need area with annual average
openings in New York State projected to reach almost 3,600. Due to its close proximity to New
York City, Old Westbury is fortunate to be in a geographic area containing hundreds of
accounting and financial institutions with a demand for employees trained in accounting. The
courses in this Micro-Credential can also be used to meet the 150 credit hour requirement
necessary for licensure as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) in New York State. In addition,
CPAs can use courses offered in the Micro-Credential program to fulfill their continuing
professional education (CPE) requirements. SUNY College at Old Westbury is an accredited
NYS CPE sponsor (#0002067). CPA’s will receive 45 CPE credits in taxation for each course
successfully completed.

C. Resources
Courses offered by the School of Business Graduate Programs for this Micro-Credential
program are already being offered as part of the Master of Science in Taxation program.
Therefore, there will be no additional resources required to implement this program.

D. Cost, Financial Aid, Stackability, and Portability
Since the Estate, Gift & Trust Taxation Micro-Credential will involve two for-credit
courses, the cost will be the regular per-credit cost for these. Financial aid is
generally not available for graduate programs, although full-time students with loans
will be able to use them to pay for these courses if they are part of their degree
requirements. The Micro-Credential will be stackable to Old Westbury’s M.S. in
45

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal
Taxation. Students must take both courses from Old Westbury. The courses it
includes are regular for-credit Old Westbury classes, and therefore will be
transferrable to other SUNY institutions according to their relevant policies.
Information about these items will be included in all marketing materials publicizing
this program.
E. Title
The name “Estate, Gift & Trust Taxation” is not the title of any registered degree or
certificate program.
F. Assessment
The Micro-Credential will be assessed along with the other programs in the School
of Business’ Graduate Program as part of its regular reviews.
G. Additional Materials
Following is catalog copy for the Micro-Credential, modeled on the catalog copy for
minors.

46

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

Estate, Gift & Trust Taxation -Credential – DRAFT
Sponsoring School: School of Business Graduate Programs
The Micro-Credential in Estate, Gift & Trust Taxation is designed for individuals that are
in, or are aspiring to be in, the specialized field of estate, gift & trust taxation. It consists
of two courses: one giving an overview and grounding in the basics of estate & gift
taxation, the second dealing with the income taxation of estates & trusts. Students
successfully completing the requirements for the Micro-Credential in estate, gift & trust
taxation will have a solid education in this specialized field of taxation and will be prepared
to work in the tax department of public accounting firms, law firms and other financial
services firms

Requirements
Students are required to take 6 credits by completing both of the following courses with a
grade of B or higher:
BU7574 Estate & Gift Taxation
BU7581 Taxation of Estates & Trusts

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students who complete these courses at the required level will:
Demonstrate a broad and in depth knowledge of estate, gift & trust taxation
principles, theories and practice. This knowledge should enable students to
develop solutions to complex issues utilizing critical thinking skills.
Be prepared to become socially responsible leaders able to recognize ethical
dilemmas and achieve resolutions in a socially and professionally responsible
manner.
Understand the role of taxation in business and society.
Be able to communicate this knowledge effectively.

Other Considerations
Both classes must be taken at Old Westbury. Both can count toward Old Westbury’s
MS in Taxation

47

Micro-Credentials Task Force Proposal

APPENDIX D
CREDLY PROPOSAL
(For Reference; has pricing agreement with SUNY,
but other vendors are available)

48

September 20, 2018
Edward Bever, Ph.D.
Director, School of Professional Studies
SUNY College at Old Westbury
Old Westbury, NY 11568
RE:

Credly Digital Credential Proposal

John Boyle
Director of Strategic Partnerships
CREDLY
349 5th Avenue
Suite 726
New York, NY 10016
Tel: (570)460-3623
Email: jboyle@credly.com

Dear Edward,
We are pleased to have the opportunity to support the efforts of SUNY College at Old Westbury
(Westbury) in validating the skills and achievements of your earners and staff in broadening their
careers and enriching their knowledge. Credly is a leader in the digital credential movement. We help
empower the certification of competencies, abilities, and knowledge for thousands of organizations
focused on education and workforce development, such as EDUCAUSE, the American Institute of
CPAs, Harvard, New York City Department of Education, SUNY, and Adobe. Credly’s platforms are
complemented by our expertise in credential and instructional design, badge system development,
implementation, systems integration, and communication and outreach.
Please note that Credly will honor these terms until December 31, 2018. This proposal and its terms
are confidential and the property of Credly.
I am happy to answer any questions you may have about this proposal and to provide additional
information as needed. Thank you very much for your consideration and we are excited to be on this
journey with you.
Sincerely,
John Boyle

Credly Proposal for SUNY College at Old Westbury:
About Credly and Acclaim
Credly was founded to empower organizations and individuals to recognize, communicate, and track
verified achievements. As leaders of the Open Badge movement, Credly is based on the idea that
digital credentials should be stackable, portable, and live with the learner. The combination of Credly
and Acclaim is unique in its market leadership, which includes some of the world's most widelyrecognized credentials and certifications, and reaches nearly everywhere learning takes place,
including: schools and higher education and continuing/professional education; employers and
businesses both large and small; industry and professional associations; and other membership and
social organizations. Credly and Acclaim have issued more than 15 million badges, continuing our
mission to connect learners and professionals across the world with recognition that can lead to
relevant opportunities and learning pathways.

Our Understanding of Your Need
SUNY College at Old Westbury is looking to leverage a digital credential strategy and program to
achieve several goals and yield multiple benefits for its learners and the communities it serves. A
verified digital credential innovates the means to celebrate that distinction and puts new power in the
hands of your earners. For Westbury, a digital credential provides a new way to stay connected and
gain additional data and insights regarding their earners and program participants. Overall, an
Westbury credential is a powerful tool to signal to the market valued skills and knowledge.
For the SUNY College at Old Westbury community, a digital credentialing program yields many
benefits and achieves several goals, including;
•
•
•
•
•
•

Secure valuable marketing impressions and brand awareness with every credential shared
Secure new data and insights based on how, where and when they share their credential.
Provide an opportunity to connect with additional learners to gain insight on activity and career
progression
Further frame the relevance of an Westbury credentinal and experience in the context of indemand career-ready skills.
Provide earners with a pathway and understanding of the value of their skills via access to
labor market data and direct links to employment
Provide a means to search and/or stay engaged with award recipients for future participation
as mentors, speakers or other alumni programs and opportunities

A digital credentialing program yields many benefits for participating learners as well, including;
•
•
•

Underscore to the earner themselves what this credential means: this is far more than getting a
bumper sticker for your parent’s car! Help them understand the value of the award.
Enhance your learner’s digital ‘brand’; a digital credential may be the first positive social media
asset they have earned that they can share that distinguishes them from others.
Create a personal ‘professional credential/designation’ digital credential portfolio to begin
collecting their ‘signals of competency’ and authority in their space

•

Provide a means to advocate for themselves.

The Acclaim platform is uniquely equipped to support your credential implementation and your
learners in the following ways:
●

●
●

●

●

Labor Market Data — Acclaim can display real-time descriptive labor market data related
to your skills and credentials to demonstrate to your learners the market value of their new
Westbury App developer credentials. Your learners can explore job titles, industries and
link to actual job opportunities that value their skills, accomplishments and competencies.
Analytics and Reporting — Acclaim’s robust reporting capabilities allow you to analyze
the ROI of your program, including the acceptance and sharing behaviors of your badge
earners.
Badge Sharing Workflow — Acclaim makes it easy for your badge earners to share their
credentials across the web, including to social media sites, via personal blog or website,
and over email or email signature. Because Acclaim badges are Open Badge 2.0
compliant, they are easily shared with other platforms that support the standard.
Recommendations Engine —Acclaim’s recommendation capabilities allow you to define
and communicate next steps for your learners from within their badges. Whether a link to
additional Westbury services or partner programs, this feature could allow you to identify
‘stacks’ of credentials that signal a developer’s progress on their learning pathway.
Professional Ecosystem — Align your brand with a badging network of respected
technical skills issuers who provide earners with meaningful recognition for their
professional and educational accomplishments. Westbury credentials would be featured
alongside Microsoft, Cisco, IBM, PMI and other leading verified credentials, giving your
earners a complete view as they build their professional skills.

Acclaim Badging Standards and Services
The Acclaim platform was built on the Open Badges standard developed originally by the Mozilla
Foundation. We are an enterprise-class badging
platform with comprehensive services and features
that help you deliver recognition for earners
accomplishments and achievements of distinction.
Leveraging Acclaim will allow Westbury to:
●
●

●
●

●

Increase brand visibility and identify potential
marketing channels and stories as Westbury
badges are shared across social networks
Provide Westbury with additional earner insights
and data based on their utilization of their badge,
and a valid means to stay connected to your
members
Reduce the risk of fraudulent claims on
credentials and the distribution of personally
identifiable information (PII)
Streamline the achievement verification process
for potential employers considering your badge
earners or education institutions reviewing their
portfolio
Take advantage of the benefits of issuing badges
through the leading, most innovative and
constantly adapting recognition platform in this
emerging field

Figure 1. Shown above is an example of the metadata built in
to an Autodesk Certified User badge, including badge name,
description, criteria, date issued, and tags.

Implementation Process
Implementation begins with an introductory meeting and customized evaluation by a Credly Client
Success Consultant, who will help you define your goals for your badging initiative and guide you
through the development process for an effective and timely launch. You will receive dedicated
support, training, and toolkit materials each week leading up to your launch date to help you navigate
the Acclaim platform, leverage all its features and reports, and cultivate brand recognition for your
business.
Here is a summary of the services you will have access to:
●
●
●
●
●
●

Regularly scheduled meetings with your Credly Client Success Consultant
Custom design services and metadata support
Marketing and communications tools and frameworks
Assistance in issuing retroactive badges to establish an immediate badge community
Portfolio of online support resources and documentation
Post-launch program analysis and strategy planning

Our Client Success team relies on best practices gained from experience in launching hundreds of
clients to help you build a successful badging program.

Benefits and ROI
Adopting the Acclaim platform will benefit your Westbury recognition program and provide
meaningful return on your investment in multiple ways:
● Tap into the global scale and proven success of the world’s leading digital recognition and
credentialing company
● Access an emerging ecosystem that utilizes learning outcomes across our growing network
of education organizations, training partners and professional organizations
● Gain feedback directly from the market through badge performance analytics based on
user behaviors, badge sharing and generated views
● Increase earner engagement and cultivate meaningful testimonials from badge earners who
discover further learning and professional advancement by utilizing their badges from
Westbury

Labor Market Data
Acclaim’s labor market data provides real-time labor market data directly related to your app
developer credentials. The data is sourced from more than 65,000 global job boards and career sites
as well as job profile information from the US Census Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics. With
this data, your credential earners will be able to connect, and therefore appreciate, the market value
of their Westbury/Android designation and the additional skill development opportunities.

Pricing and Investment Estimates
As discussed, I have provided pricing information for the initial phase and then broader roll-out to the
next phase below. Credly is committed to deliver business impact for your organization that exceeds
your investment in our platform. If you have additional thoughts on how we can work within your
constraints, we encourage a dialogue.

License Services and Pricing
Credly’s Acclaim product pricing uses a SaaS model comprised of an initial one-time setup fee and
an annual license fee. There are three primary components involved in establishing our pricing to
Issuer Organizations:
● Implementation fee for initial setup, training and implementation (including badge system
metadata and visual design, plus implementation of some number of templates at launch).
● Annual license based on your expected annual issuing volume for new badges and the
number of Authorized Issuers you may designate to have their own badge issuing permissions
under your primary account.
o Annual license includes platform maintenance, analytics and reports, API access and
frequent feature enhancements; a dedicated client success manager who provides
long-term comprehensive program support, analysis, and training; end user support

for your badge earners, and badge storage and management on behalf of your
earners.
o

●

Authorized Issuers could be third party Partners or legal Affiliates, such as local
chapters, each able to be granted various permissions to create, issue and manage
badges, along with segmented views of data unique to the permissions granted them,
under the primary Westbury account.

Historical (‘retroactive’) badge issuing creates an immediate community of Westbury badge
earners to jump-start the messaging, ‘buzz’, sharing, branding and benefits to your members.
These are usually uploaded in bulk from a csv file and issued as a group. Our Customer
Success team can help with setting a messaging and marketing strategy for the
announcement of the badge program to be distributed with or in advance of this distribution.

SERVICE
DESCRIPTION
A. Implementation Credly will provide the following services to Issuer
(not to exceed four (4) hours):
• Provide Issuer access to the Credly System;
• Virtual training;
• Badge template development services;
• Marketing support;
• Technical integration support;
• Assist Issuer in planning their badging system; and
Provide feedback to Issuer for alignment with best
practices.
B. Additional
Additional time that Issuer can request from Credly
Implementation to provide additional Implementation services.
Services
Available in two hour increments.
C. Badge
Badge templates developed in collaboration with
Template
Credly (up to two design feedback cycles). There is
Designs
no fee associated with Badge templates developed
Included
solely by the Issuer.
D. Additional
The amount charged for Badge templates developed
Badge
by Credly in excess of 10 Badge templates. There is
Template
no fee associated with Badge templates developed
Design
solely by the Issuer.

FEE
Implementation fees are
detailed in row E below to
their corresponding license

$500 for up to two (2) hours
of additional time

Up to 2 Badge templates

$500 per additional Badge
Template

E.

Annual
License Fee

Annual License / Setup
The fee paid for access to the Credly System.

Unlimited earners

$5,000 / $10,000
(setup fee waived until Dec 31)

F.

Excess Active
Earner Fee

G. Authorized
Issuer Annual
License

Amount charged for each additional Active Earner
issued in excess of the Active Earner Allowance
Limit.
Amount charged for each Authorized Issuer added to
the Account; such Issuer is granted permission by
the primary Account holder to create additional
badges on behalf of the primary, to issue primary
holder’s badges on their behalf, is granted a
separate landing page from the primary Account (and
therefore able to see segmented analytics on only
their Authorized Issuer account activity)

$3.00

$2,000 per Contract Year
(optional; depending on
how you may want to
delegate authority)

Summary
Credly is honored to help Westbury leverage the power of digital credentials and real-time labor
market data through our Acclaim badging platform. Our team includes several long-time leaders of
the open credentials movement devoted to growing the use of digital, verified credentials and
empowering individuals. Having implemented similar programs for many other global technology
leaders, we are confident in the impact of leveraging this emerging technology for the recognition of
professional achievements, and we are excited to partner with you on this new initiative to drive
engagement, talent development, growth and value for your programs.
If you have any questions or require further explanation on any of the items in this proposal, please
do not hesitate to ask.