State University of New York College at Old Westbury
Full Faculty Meeting
February 11, 2005

Attendees:

Approval of Minutes: Minutes for last Full Faculty Meeting has not been
located. Senate has been without a Faculty Secretary since last October.
Chairs Report: (Caroline to attach)
President’s Report:

International Partnership Luncheon will be held Wednesday April 13, 1 4 pm, at the Crest Hollow Country Club. The speaker will be former
President Bill Clinton. This is an important initiative in continuing
efforts to provide increased exposure for Old Westbury and raise money
for students and faulty.
As part of his five-year review, the President met with outside evaluator
Dr. Steven Portch, who says we should work toward having enrollments
soar in the next several years.
President has met with the president of Northport Bank in efforts to

grow OW, and raise money.

We are looking to grow School of Education under leadership of Dr.
Mattai. We are looking to grow this school; we are working to grow this
school. We are glad to have P. O’Sullivan as AVP and Provost.
Faculty have asked for report on AV. This will be available soon. Will
also provide schedule of rotation of classes etc. This should be available
later this month. Walkways, pathways and aprons will be addressed.
This will cause some disruptions, but timetable and notification will be
provided as early as possible. We are working to create an online site
where people can track what has been done and see the schedule of
what is going to happen.

Architects have been chosen; they will be

meeting with students and faculty to get ideas about the renovation of
AV. It will be next year before the reconstruction starts. Given past
problems with student dorms, he said that he wanted to proceed more
carefully.
- The Academic Vice President is looking into ways to strengthen faculty
and improve salaries and sabbaticals.

Retention rate:

we are striving to raise it from current levels to 50% by

2010, There needs to be some flexibility in length of time to graduation.

Four-year graduation rates may not be appropriate for our students.

Admission numbers are good, with applications up by 15% for the Fall.
We are optimistic about a corresponding increase in admissions.
President reported that he has been very involved in generating more

money for the College.

As for the trees: SEMPRA was doing work on the air handlers in the
ceiling, and they could not get to them because of the trees. The air
handlers need to be relocated to the catwalk. It was not possible to
trim the trees to the level where they needed to be for the work to be
done. Was it necessary to notify the campus community about this
work? Probably not; nevertheless he extended apologies that faculty
had not been notified or consulted.

President stated that he would have to leave during this meeting to

attend the memorial Service for Ozzie Davis which was being held at the

Abyssinian Baptist Church, and asked for faculty understanding.

President said that he appreciated getting mail from the community, but
stated that he preferred regular “snail mail” to email.
President announced that Interim Director of First Year Experience was
L. Anker. Announced that R. Gonzalez was getting married soon
AVP Report:

Thanked President for having confidence and trust in him and appointing
him to this position.

He stated that.he had met with a number of people about the academic
calendar, but given the holidays, the semester needs to start before
Labor Day to meet the time and schedule requirements.
There are a number of accreditations that are moving along, especially
NCATE. CAP and the Arts and Sciences departments are very involved
and good progress is being made. Soon Middle States Periodic Review
will start. J. Walsh and A. Barbera are co-chairs. Committees (subject
to Approval from Dr. Butts) are being formed. First-Year Experience to
be headed by L. Anker. Stated that he was delighted about this. Dr.
Sacks had put together a great program, and he was confident that L.
Anker would be a great replacement.
In meeting with Senate Executive Committee, CAP, and Council of

Chairs, he realized that 2010 is five years away and there are a number

of targets that must be hit by then:

=

2.

. Increase enrollment to 5000.

Three schools: Education, Business and Arts and Sciences.

This is

a change that is important to enhance image and also necessary
to grow enrollment.
3. BPC and CAP are also going have very important roles to play to
realize these goals, and to accomplish academic reorganization.

We need to have student-centered focus, and keep asking ourselves, did
we help students? Touch their lives? Change them. Asked for faculty
help in engaging in these efforts.
Report from Facilities Director J. Haynie (for Ciavirella)not present
Healthfirst Appeal: A. Rodriguez not present

Teaching for Learning Center:A. Ebrahimi
First Spring presentation today in Multipurpose room of Student Union.
Dr. Mukherji to speak about South Asian Immigrants in New York.
Senate website is up: www.facultysenate.net
Aim is to upgrade teaching and learning on campus. Planning is
underway for full day seminar. Hope to have representation from all
departments on campus. Thanked A. Frisken for help in putting together
three seminars even though she is not on the committee. Many faculty
have come to TLC with questions about technology. Have scheduled
meeting with AVP to address these issues.
Report from UUP Chapter President: C. Franco
Budget for 2005-2006. For the first time there is a request for a budget
increase, which is much better than a flat budget. Even though
enrollment has increased dramatically over a 10 year period, there is
been a loss of 1000 faculty lines. If budget is not supported, we could
lose 1,700 faculty lines. The tuition increase is to make up budget
deficit, if we do not get this, we will lose faculty lines. Some legislators
oppose increase, but if we do not get this we will be in trouble. Union
has been sponsoring TV and media ads to encourage legislators to
address budget. Until we get enrollment increase to make us self
sufficient, we will need legislative support to continue functioning.
Encouraged faculty to call telephone lines to Assemblypersons Bruno or
Lavalle, or Governor Pataki. Calling is more effective than letter
campaigns.

Feb. 1 was UUP Legislative Luncheon. 100 legislators came and they
were encouraged to support SUNY. Parents of students will pressure
legislators
NTSUT Higher Education Lobby Day is Feb 28, and Mar1. We need more
people to get involved in lobby efforts. There are limits to having the
same people lobbying all the time.

Q. What is the Union’s position on small, regular tuition increases,
rather than sudden large increases?
A. Union opposes tuition increases but we know realistically that we
must have them and we would prefer a planned process that decides the
increases.

Q. What proportion of our budget is State-funded?
A. About 27%.
Old Business:

None

New Business:
L. Anker thanked faculty for overwhelming support. It is a source of
pride for us that the majority of Freshman Seminars are taught by fulltime faculty. Teacher Education and Mathematics are offering Freshman
Seminars. This is very important.
Film Festival flyer will be coming to mail boxes.
Mrs. lyer’.

Feb 16 first film, ‘Mr. &

M. Kinane: Wednesday Feb. 23, 10:50 Common Hour is Presidents Honor
Convocation. Speaker is an exemplary speaker on race, culture, and
society.

Flyer with monthly calendar of activities will be sent shortly.

Please encourage students to attend.
L. Whitten:

Black History Month: Dean Wayne Edwards, Chair.

We

have a full program. K.Velsor will present on the Underground Railroad.
Film series starts Feb 16. Please help publicize this program with
students.

Email sent to faculty.

Please print out and post.

J. Spadaro:
Reebok commercial was shot on campus. Faculty should
have been notified. Why are we making deals with companies that have
very exploitative child labor practices in Bangladesh, Pakistan, etc.? |
object to the Administration making deals like this without consultation
with faculty.
D. Papademas: Will post materials on the speakers at the UN in March
and April. Encourages faculty to explore UN website. Faculty who are
interested in working on UN-related projects should contact her.