Minutes

of the GENERAL FACULTY
FEBRUARY 28, 2003
S-100

MEETING

. Report from the President
The President welcomed everyone back to the new semester and noted the basketball team
was closest it has been in a while to being in the finals. He asked that we encourage our

athletes in their efforts to win the President’s Cup.

He also thanked everyone for their

patience during the inclement weather. We lack funds to hire additional staff and maintain
equipment and the President complimented the Buildings and Grounds staff.
The New York State Education Department will be on campus March 27 and 28" to review
our campus in anticipation of their approval of our Master’s degree in Accounting. The
President emphasized the important of providing information and displaying enthusiasm for
the new program. A masters degree is important because it will increase funding, improve
our image, help with retention, reach out to alumni, and bring new students to our campus.
Our undergraduate enrollment continues to grow. We exceeded our FTEs by 3% this spring,
reached 102% of our transfer goal. We have been working closely with Suffolk Community

College and Nassau Community College in getting transfer students. We met 88% of our

first-time to college students; missed for part-time students. He asked for faculty help in
recruiting and retention will help funding, image, and student morale. Mary Marquez Bell

noted that every student who stays is equivalent to four new enrollments.
noted SUNY

The President

cuts are $183 million, with a debate about a tuition increase, changes to TAP

and cuts in EOP and C-Step programs. Although the proposed tuition increase is dramatic
and perhaps could have been phased in, our State offers the best value in terms of quality and
cost. The President asked faculty to encourage students to exercise their political rights to
protest against proposed tuition increases.
There is no where to get money besides a tuition increase. Each area of the college has to
make a presentation before Budget and Planning Committee (BPC) about where to cut
without harming degree programs. We need to reach financial equilibrium and academic

equilibrium, attend to programs which growth potential while insuring needed liberal arts
offerings remain intact.

BPC.

Faculty were encouraged to give input to their representative on the

The President thanked the members of the Search Committee for finding the four excellent
candidates for a new Academic Vice-President. The new person should be here in early
summer. The Presidential Task Force will meet to review the three- or four-credit model. The
Task Force is comprised of 23 people who agreed to work with Dr. O’ Sullivan, who will

chair the committee. The Task Force is charged with hearing discussion from all

constituencies. The President needs the report by May 16" and urged everyone to get
involved in this discussion. We need to consider competition, student needs, quality of
education and the best utilization of our resources.

Two of the five new residence halls are open, the other three are to open one each month. We
received a good report about them in Newsday, and students are happy. The Student Union

was turned over to our campus today with an extensive punch list.
2. Approval of Minutes - September 13, 2002 Meeting

The minutes of the general faculty meeting of September 13th were unanimously approved.
3.

Report from the AVP (P. O’Sullivan)

The AVP thanked everyone for their high level of cooperation in organizing class schedules,

realizes class size has increased. Summer school is a revenue source for paying adjunct
salaries. We have increased our offerings this summer from 127 to 150. As an incentive,
full-time faculty will be paid $2,750, which requires ten or more students in a class. He will
establish a group to organize a platform of courses and an on-going plan to provide more
stability in summer school offerings. M. Kinane advised that our advertising targets students
studying off Long Island and returning for the summer. We have mailed 10,000 postcards
and are advertising in upstate newspapers.
Middle States Committee has made excellent progress.
is finished.

Will send report to everyone when it

Approval from State Education Department sets trajectory in that we can then register
additional mater’s degrees without site visits if we are successfully reviewed. The AVP
asked for cooperation that that his office be informed immediately if issues arise with the
reviewers.

He chairs Task Force Committee, which will be an open debate, consider variables such

quality of education, flexibility of scheduling, ability of students to finish, faculty workload,
etc. Faculty will receive a list of committee members, subcommittees and whatever is
available.
The AVP reminded faculty about the March 12" medical malpractice debate, which proves
the opportunity to bring class. He invited Vice President of Development, Richard Brown,
to speak. Funds raised were $196,000 for fiscal year 2002, projecting close to $300,000 for

this year. Funds were allocated to scholarships, research grants to faculty, study abroad and
other cultural activities, OSSD, and restoration of stables. Efforts continue to bring the

community on to campus. The Board represents a cross section of business, legal, available

to present to classes and student groups.

The AVP responded to questions about offering summer school courses on a per capita basis
and transportation service for obtaining food off-campus for summer students.

4. General Education (C. Hobson)
Ballots were distributed on what faculty will be asked to vote on in mail ballot. Background
of General Education includes: 1) Presented to Albany approved courses approved,
devolution, responsibility for changes in program come back to campus level to make

changes within SUNY guidelines without having to send individual courses to SUNY for

approval. 2) Our program has received praised for thoroughness and intellectual quality,
which goes beyond minimum SUNY guidelines.

The proposal is that the General Education Committee should become a standing committee

under the By-laws. Previous General Education Committees have existed as ad hoc

committees, which was a problem when there were revisions. There were objections that it
not a legitimate committee in 1999-2000 under By-laws. Now need a stable and legitimate
structure. It is proposed that the committee always have ten permanent members

representing ten domains, with the chair elected from among domain representatives. It

allows for a number ex officio on faculty side such as from CAP and on the administrative

side with a maximum of five votes. The faculty majority should be two to one. The special

nature of general education requires interaction with SUNY and our administration.

Rita Colon-Urban urged people to vote. The President expressed concern about the course
release stipend as noted in proposal, which are difficult under present conditions. C. Hobson
noted it is the same as any other committee under by-laws which may have a course release

attached to it. Barry Armandi noted the By-laws Committee revisions to the By-laws address
course releases as a current practice, eliminated stipends, and could negotiate terms.

. Freshman Year Experience (N. Sacks)
The Freshman Year Experience program was consistently praised at a national conference for
first-year experience program and our program held as a model as we are at the forefront of
what is being recommended. She thanked faculty for their cooperation and invited faculty to
consider teaching a first year seminar which may be within a specific topic, may also link
your course to a learning community. More freshmen are on campus, so we need more

courses.

Student surveys indicate satisfaction is higher than last year. Each student receives a poster
developed by Visual Arts department and art club. First-year honor society has 27 new

members. Thanked Cynthia Anderson for attracting students to the office. Orientation

includes a luncheon for faculty on July 12". M. Kinane will investigate costs to purchase
posters. No significant loss or gain in retention because this cohort has not yet been tracked.

. UUP Report

(C. Franco)

On February 14" proposals exchanged new contract proposals the details of which will
appear in the next issue of The Voice. The call for nominations for chapter elections is out

and ballots are due April 23rd. The budget shortfall will create 4,000 layoffs faculty and

staff. UUP started a political action campaign; legislators would like to hear from us. He
distributed information with phone numbers and talking points. UUP is advocating a planned
budget plan rather than crisis management.

Tickets are available to see the Mets v. Braves on May 31.

7. Announcements
Service Learning: Sharon O’Connor distributed information about service learning to
provide service to the community. The Teacher Education Program gave 1,000 hours last
semester; look for service learning newsletter in two weeks. The School of Business and

Math departments join teacher Education; other programs and departments are invited to
join. American Studies, Health & Society, Disabilities Office, First-Year Program have
community components.

Visual Arts students have an exhibit in library; look for posters.

Tickets are available for the Vagina Monologues to benefit organizations working in
opposition to violence against women and girls. Tickets may be purchased and donated to a
student.

Tom Del Guidice announced an all-day campus conference on April 4" on best practices in
web migration. V. Vaccaro suggested posters be placed around campus for the SED site
visit.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:15 p.m.