Residential College:

A College’s Organizing Framework For its Student’s Educational Experience





…

 liberal arts college that fosters academic excellence through close interaction among students, faculty and staff. (Old Westbury Mission)

At a large university, residential colleges seek to provide for an intimate intellectual and developmental educational experience through residentially based 

cohorts

 organized around academic pursuits and/or thematic interests. In essence they are seeking to replicate the magic of small colleges. 

Small residential colleges are organized around the principle of providing for a close educational experience (often liberal arts) that deepens student’s intellectual capacity and broadens their horizons of possibilities. 

Residential College: Overview

Yale, Oxford, Cambridge

Williams College, Amherst College, Swarthmore College, Vassar College, Colby College, Barnard College

University of Virginia, Michigan, UC San Diego, NYIT, Cornell, Binghamton University, Rutgers, Central Michigan, UC Berkely, Appalachian State



What is in a Residential College?

Living and Learning Communities

 

(can be throughout the undergraduate experience)

First Year experience

 (belonging, developmental, skills, academic programs) 

WE ARE ALREADY DOING THIS 

Sophomore Experience

 (reflective, engagement, selecting a major, developmental) 

WE ARE BEGINNING TO DO THIS

Academic Cohorts

STEM House

Education House

Performing Arts House 

American Studies House

Criminal Justice House

Business House      

Thematic Housing 

Sustainability House 

Global Challenges House 

International House    

Social Justice House 

Honors House

Capstone, undergraduate research, externship, "tinkering", practicums, praxis center (labs)

Badging, Intrusive advising and faculty mentor



What About Commuters?

At OW, residential cohorts can consist of both on-campus and commuter students organized around learning and living, academic, and thematic communities. “Residential” does not  mean in residence.  

A cohort can be anchored within a thematic house with the residential community and span across the college.

Therefore, commuters have a “home and community” throughout their undergraduate years. 

Woodlands Hall 6

Academic Village Hall A

Suggested RCM Outcomes

Close Liberal Arts Education/Community-

Life of the Mind

 

Increase Student Success

Social and Environmental Justice Education, and Impact.

Deep and Broad Knowledge of and Commitment to Chosen Fields of Study- 

Life of the Practitioner

STEAM Education to Include Revival of Performing Arts

Signature and Dynamic Programs

Wow!

Old Westbury Identity

A RC is more than just coursework and more than just co-academic programs. It is what happens when the two are aligned to meet desired learning and developmental outcomes for students. It is the programmatic collision points between academics and co-academics, where mutualism is achieved for the benefit of students and the College.  

OW Undergraduate Residential College Educational Experience

Hanover





Background & Overview

HANOVER’S SOLUTION

Hanover provides unlimited access to customized research – including data analytics, survey design, administration, and analysis, peer benchmarking, and best-practice research – in order to serve higher education as an adjunct planning group or extension of the executive team. 

Hanover offers this access to institutional leaders for a fixed, annual fee. This provides budget visibility and creates a lower-stress environment where Hanover can serve as a one-stop shop for all research-related issues. 

WHY HANOVER?

Custom and proprietary research based on your unique on-going needs and special initiatives

Flexible capacity model that can execute on a pre-planned agenda, 

or execute specific projects as and when needs arise

Specialized expertise that can serve a wide variety of use cases

Networking opportunity to interact with other higher education partners in your role across the country 

Fixed-fee for 12 months of ongoing support is simple and affordable



What is Cabinet?

College Senior Strategic Leadership

Vision-Big Picture

Ethical

Balanced

Policies

Organization-wide

Core Competencies

Infrastructure

Planning

Capital







Potential Future Projects To Consider  (1) 



PRIMARY

SECONDARY

METHODOLOGY  

TYPE

QUANTITATIVE





QUALITATIVE

MIXED

ACADEMIC

ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT





ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT







STUDENT EXPERIENCE



ADMINISTRATIVE

FINANCE





ADVANCEMENT





MARKETING

























































CONTENT & RELATIONSHIP 

DIRECTOR

SUNY OLD WESTBURY

4) Selection of research methodologies to collect, (possibly create), and analyze data

5) Craft a roadmap of potential projects with scope of work outlines known as a Research Action Plan

3) Determination of data sources necessary to address and answer research questions 

2) Translation of goals and priorities into research questions. 

1) Identification and discussion of institutional strategic goals and priorities

Individual project work gets completed; results and recommendations shared. The Research Action Plan gets reassessed and realigned as necessary

Development of the Customized Research Action Plan

Hanover’s online client portal comprises a suite of tools and resources to complement members’ custom research queues.

Access to actionable research and tools 24/7

Share user access across your team

Explore Hanover Research news and thought leadership

Request new projects

Receive access to exclusive Roundtables and webinars designed for 2-year college leaders

Connect to custom dashboards

Access a repository of more than 1,600 research studies.

Share relevant studies with others in your institution.

Receive weekly research spotlight emails with the latest available reports.

Hanover Digital Portal  (2)

Research Library

Data Lab

More than 12 million data points

3,000+ institution peer comparisons

Connect to 7 on-demand dashboards

Three Studies for 2021-2022

 

Hanover





Announcements/Updates

COVID Cases Reporting and Response

In classroom…move to remote

In workspace…reduce density (including moving to remote)

Student surveillance testing to begin

Ongoing Electrical Work about 40% completed with the repair/upgrade work

SUNY Capital Matching Grant

Athletics Fields (upgrade and repositioning of the fields)

Building A (AV) (Social and Environmental Justice Center & Performing Arts space)

Rathskeller (AV) 

Trainor House (Daycare and Student Social Services Support Center)

Add classroom space

5. 

Employee Benefits

6. 

Introducing Dr. David Tomanio, Interim Director of Human Resources