STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY



SPECIAL MEETING of the Faculty Senate and Full Faculty

Friday, May 15, 2020 

12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

Location: Zoom

Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Roster of Senators Present:  Andrew Mattson (chair), Dana Sinclair (secretary/treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At Large Rep to the EC), Bonnie Eannone (professional), Laura Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At Large), Roger Mayer (AC), Jillian Nissen(BS), Camile Jones (CP), Veronika Dolar (EN), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Edislav Manetovic (LEC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Erin Toolis (PY), Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young Park (Math & CIS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez (Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Amanda Frisken (CAP)

Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS)

Visitors: Jacob Heller, Anthony Barbera, Jennie D’ambrosio, Zarrin Mahmud SGA Senator, Parker Stephens, Jahvon Spencer-Newell, Diana Sukhram, Gregg Rodger, Chibundu Chukuezi, Jason Kaloudis, Kerry Weir, Patricia Harris, Chelsea Sheilds-Mas, Tricia Mclaughlin, Frank Pizzardi, Zarrin Mahmud, Jillian Crocker, Peter Ikeler

Absent:  President Butts was not able to attend the senate meeting. Senators Absent: Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), William Gillis (University Senator alternate), Jingyi Song (HP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Patty Harris (LE), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Runi Muhkerji (University Senator alternate), Bliddi Stemm (CE), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH), Ashley Alvarado (SGA)



MINUTES 

AGENDA

I.  Call to Order 12:30 p.m.

II. Approval of Minutes for April 17, 2020                                                     

Minutes were approved as amended.



III. Chair’s Report                                       				              

Shared Governance Committee: Instructional Contingency Planning Committee:  The committee is meeting and preparing instructional policy recommendations. This committee will submit preliminary recommendations for fall by June 15.  Ashlee Lien is now the UUP representative on the committee.

Joint Faculty-Admin Task Force on ARPT Logistics: The Provost, Faculty Governance and ARPT are working together to create a task force to make recommendations regarding the transition to digital appointment files in the coming academic year.

Presidential Search Update:  From the search committee chair, Mili Makhijani: “On May 20th, search committee starts reviewing applications/CV’s and our search committee meeting to select first round of candidates will be scheduled for on or about June 2nd.”

Election Results: The ballots are in and the votes are being counted. From the Nominations & Elections Committee: “We received 101 valid ballots, of which 70 ballots were from SAS, 9 were from SOB, 10 were from SOE, 5 were from the Library and 7 from other.”  There is a tie which will require a coin flip at the senate meeting to determine the winner (bylaws procedure.)

SPAAR Committee Update: The committee met today and will meet again on June 10. The committee continues to assess how to complete its charge this semester in response to the obstacles created by the pandemic. A report will be submitted to the administration and faculty governance in June 2020.  



IV  Provost’s Report (Duncan Quarless; also, Dean Hillery)

The steering committee (co-chairs:  Anthony Barbera, Jacob Heller and Margaret Torrell) will take draft chapters from the various working groups and put them together over the summer.  There should be a draft copy of the Middle States report by the fall.

We do not yet have a chair of our evaluation team for our evaluation for Middle States.

Re:  Enrollment:  Right now we are slightly ahead of last year with graduate students and slightly behind with transfer students.  Currently, our continuing returning students are registered at 73% of previous rate. Another committee will be formed to work on enrollments, addressing questions such as: What is it that we need to do to increase enrollment? What problems are students having? How can we add value to the student experience and get the students enrolled?

Re: Fall Instruction:   This is still being discussed, but much will depend on the enrollment.  The Instructional Contingency Planning Committee Joint Task Force (co-chairs: Ed Bever and Danielle Lee) is working on fall options/plans. 

Three scenarios: 1. We all go back to normal; 2. We go fully remote;  3. We have blended instruction.

If the ICPC Joint Task Force reaches out to you for information, please respond to them as quickly as possible. Email them if you have information that you think they need; 

Re: Upcoming Lessons Learned Conversations: This is all about what have we done so far this spring – what worked, what didn't work.  What can we do differently? How can we make it work in the fall? This is a chance for people on campus to come together and discuss it. All are encouraged to participate.

Re: Faculty Survey (from Jacob Heller):  on the faculty experience for how things were going for faculty since spring break. That link is still open.

Duncan:  Thank you! We made it to the end of the semester. Today is the last day of finals. Congratulations to everybody because honestly you did it and you did it phenomenally! And Sunday, as you know, is graduation, a virtual graduation.





V. Special Order of Business: Nominations & Election of Faculty Senate Chair (Maureen Dolan)

                                                                						

A hearty “Thank you!” was extended to Andy Mattson:  Governance has had the great benefits of the past three years of Andy’s extremely strong leadership and how he represented the interests of faculty and governance in the college. 

The process of nominating and electing Faculty Senate Chair for AY2020-2021 followed.   As of the FS meeting, one person, Michael Kavic, current Vice Chair, had been nominated via nomination sent to the Faculty Senate office.  The nomination was seconded, and Mike accepted the nomination.  Additional nominations from the floor of the Senate were invited.  As there were no additional nominations, motion to close nominations was voiced and seconded, with no objections.  Parliamentarian Dolan moved to affirm the election of Mike Kavic as FS chair-elect by 

Acclamation.

Michael Kavic:  Thank you all very much. It's a very great honor and certainly much appreciated. So thank you all for the vote of confidence…I've been the Vice Chair this past year and it's been a little bit like being a magician and training under Houdini…I have been in awe of Andy this entire time.  “I will do my best to help us navigate these really difficult issues that we as a college are dealing with. Thank you very much thank you to Andy and the rest of the EC. It's much appreciated. So thank you very much.





VI. ARPT Update (C. Hobson)     			                              

There were 26 files this spring, 11 prior to the changeover (to remote/virtual), and 15 subsequent to changeover.   The 11 above-referenced files plus a couple that were submitted later in completely digitized form or handled in the normal process with votes taken at the end of the session and recommendation letters on those files will be edited and added to the files by some sort of procedure that has not yet been worked out.

At some point a visit to campus to look at physical files will happen, possibly around the end of June when there is more of a possibility or a reopening.





VII. UUP Update (M. Livingston)					      

If a return to campus is going to happen, health and safety is a concern.  Matters such as concerns about asymptomatic people, those who may be exposed off campus,  and extra work faculty will have to due to prepare for contingency plan, will be voiced at labor management meetings.

Governor Cuomo extended nonessential employee pause through May 28th.  

All were invited to email her if there are labor management issues that need to be taken up. 





VIII. CAP Resolutions (R. Yamamoto)			                

Re:  Minor in Pre-Health Professions (M. Mascareno, E. Schwartz):  This resolution was read and seconded to proceed to a vote.  (It was noted that CAP committee had discussed, debated and approved the minor prior to the FS meeting.)  There were no objections to a motion to adopt the minor by unanimous consent, and the motion carried.

The following micro-credentials’ “therefores” were read, moved to votes for acceptance, all with unanimous consent, with no objections, motions carried.

	Micro-Credential in Neuropsychopharmacology (R. Mukherji, L. Neuwirth)

	Micro-Credential in Cognitive Neuropsychology (R. Mukherji, L. Neuwirth)

	Micro-Credential in Foundations of Nonprofit Management (E. Bever)

IX. Adjunct Compensation Resolution (Carol Quirke)	           

This resolution was introduced and summarized.  Motion to enter debate was seconded and debate ensued, followed by vote on the resolve of $1,000 one-time payment.  Motion regarding the resolution carried without defense

Question regarding the payment remained. Faculty governance has no power to make these payments 



X. FRRC Report (A. Ebrahimi)					

The technical part was read, open for questions; report was accepted.



XI. IT Governance Committee Update (C. Holland)			   

Members of the IT governance committee were notified at their last meeting that due to the budget issues stemming from the COVID-19 crisis, the original plan to upgrade classrooms in the New Academic Building has been changed.  All projectors and computers were originally scheduled to be changed in the NAB, but this probably won’t happen this year.  People should email ITGC chair Holland with recommendations about which classrooms should be the first to be upgraded.  This would allow faculty to have input into the decision.

It was recommended that faculty take advantage of Blackboard training workshops for faculty over the summer, as there is the potential for understaffing in the fall.  



XII. Sharing of Concerns/Questions/Announcements 				   



XIII. Adjournment 

The meeting ended at 2:30 pm.

4