STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLLEGE 

AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, December 15, 2017 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), William Gillis (Senator At-Large, Alt. Univ. Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Yu Lei (MMF), Blidi Stemm (CE), Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Jillian Nissen (BS), Judy Lloyd (CP), Deepa Jani (EN), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Lisa Whitten (PY), Dana Prewitt (SY), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)



Senators Absent:  Jon Kleinman (Professional), Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Andrew Hashey (EE), Jingyi Song (H&P), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Shijian Li (PH), Eric Hagan (VA), Chris Hobson (ARPT), Llana Barber (LEC), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP Stud. Aff.)



Visitors:  Chris Notaro, Omar Estrada Torres, Duncan Quarless, Lorenz Neuwirth, Minna Barrett, Shalei Simms, Martha Livingston





MINUTES

			   I.	Call to Order 12:36pm							

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of Dec 1, 2017

			

			The minutes are approved by voice vote.

			

			 III.	FS Chair’s Report 	

			

			See attached Chair Report

			

			IV. 	Provost’s Report

			

			Happy Holidays and have an enjoyable New Year. 

			Minna Barrett asks the Provost about an email about sustainability committee.

			Dr. Butts has been lobbying for funding.  This may help with labs and classroom space.

			   

			

			V.	Old Business

			

			A.	Joint resolution on the transition of Applied Learning decisions to a faculty standing committee	

			Please read the handout on Applied Learning:  Next Steps.

			New faculty asks what Applied Learning is and why are we tagging courses.  Minna Barrett responds summarizing that Applied Learning (AL) is being looked at as a college-wide graduation requirement.  The SUNY requirements would be tagged and would appear on one’s syllabus meeting certain criteria.  All SUNY approved AL courses go through the tagging.  There are many aspects of the tagging which is a joint responsibility among our committees: LEC, TLRC, CAP.  Right now we tag courses using the AL Team, which is “extra legal”, so we are creating the mechanism under faculty governance.   Duncan Quarless summarizes that our campus completed a seven-part plan, by the AL Team.  Since the plan was accomplished AL now belongs to the faculty.  A subgroup of the AL Team are faculty, and they are currently in the absence of a codified process.  Faculty asks whether it will be a college-wide requirement.  Minna Barrett responds saying that that will be determined by faculty vote in the future, but we cannot complete that discussion right now.  We do currently have a large amount of AL courses, but we need to address in the future whether we want to adopt the graduation requirement.  We are still in the middle of that conversation.  Some faculty resist the requirement, due to concerns about sovereignty over their curriculum.  Right now there is no consensus that this should be a grad requirement.  This does not necessarily go through as a mandate for departments; it is a college-wide requirement such as First Year or other avenues.  This is a conversation for later.  Duncan Quarless notes that the grad requirement is a separate issue from the tagging, which can proceed regardless of the grad requirement.

			There will be an ad-hoc task force between LEC, TLRC, CAP.  Evan Rufrano asks whether there would be a student representative.  Minna Barrett responds that the Executive Committee will discuss this and we will get back to this issue in the future.

			Faculty asks whether we tag a section (not a course) and whether one can do so without affecting other sections.  The answer is yes.  This is not the case in all courses, some courses may be tagged for all sections.  You may be teaching a course that you do not realize is tagged as AL.  However, one section can be tagged as AL.  It is handled on a case-by-case basis and a committee is required for this process.

			Faculty comments that Bio I and II could have the AL tag.

			Faculty asks about COIL.  We are still a member of COIL.  We have a campus network coordinator for COIL.  Duncan Quarless will connect faculty to these resources.  We will double check about the status of COIL.

			Faculty asks whether the registrar tags?  Yes.  It is an attribute like any other attribute.

			

			B.	Parking update by FRRC Sub-Committee	

			The committee met every 2 weeks with faculty, adjuncts, and students.  We have some ideas to present.

			Lorenz Neuwirth reports that the committee recommends a parking app, restricted areas for parking based on categories, a temporary gravel lot for residents to park closer to dorms, increased signage and/or emails including which lots have space, temporary carport shelters, and a color-coding system to distinguish between categories of parkers (faculty green, staff yellow, red adjuncts, purple student, etc.).  Parking ticket revenue could be rerouted into parking facilities in order to invest back into lots etc..  These are some of the ideas from the committee, which are being discussed.

			Peter Ikeler reports that next Tuesday another meeting will take place.  All are welcome.  The committee is also discussing the increase of public transportation option that may ease parking load.

			Ali Ebrahimi reports that by Dec 19 the committee will propose their ideas.  Tim McGarry will be at the next meeting in order to discuss the ideas.  Some additional issues include disability access, public transportation, communication, etc..  The recommendations of the committee should go to the Executive Committee and it will be sent immediately to the administrative units dealing with parking.  Martha Livingston of UUP also requests to be included in the notification of the recommendations.  Maureen Dolan comments that if there are substantive issues they may become resolutions if needed.  Minna Barrett comments that facilities are already moving on this, and faculty are not involved.  We should not accept this.  We are not involved in their deliberations.  The Provost comments that he does not have further information about decisions or on-goings about parking.  Maureen Dolan comments that the new parking map is on the website.  There are said to be faculty on a parking committee that is making decisions, but such faculty did not go through governance.  Faculty must be selected through governance to be faculty representatives. The Executive Committee has voiced a need to have better communication about on-goings in facilities with the President.  Maureen Dolan recalls that Senate used to schedule regular reports about facilities. Ali Ebrahimi comments that a meeting with Tim McGarry from facilities will happen at the next meeting.  We need to plan before next semester.  The good news is that we have 2.8 million dollars assigned to improve this parking issue.

			

			C.	UUP update	

			Martha Livingston comments that during her previous presentation there was some misunderstanding.  Martha was late for the schedule due to events beyond her control.  She will do her best to be present at the beginning of the meeting in the future.  There is a mechanism that Martha may utilize in order to have a closed session without admins and non-UUP persons present.  After a scheduled meeting of the Senate, following adjournment of Senate, Martha may hold a closed meeting of UUP. Martha will want for all UUP updates to be closed to non-UUP members in the future.

			Andy Mattson responds apologizing for the communication issue.  He agrees that UUP can change into a closed meeting if needed.  Andy asks for a Senate update that is open to the full Senate on UUP issues.

			Maureen Dolan comments that the parliamentarian statement she presented to Senate was a reaffirmation of SUNY policy on Open Meetings.  As part of governance in SUNY, our Faculty Senate operates according to open meeting policy. A meeting that is closed cannot be considered a Senate meeting. The mechanism for closed session hasn’t been used by our faculty governance for over 20 years. UUP updates have always been provided in open meetings of Senate. To allow closed session, an executive session may be called to which EC invites voting faculty Senators. Closed session can occur only with prior notification.

			Please watch your email for more UUP updates.

			

			

			VI.	New Business

			

				A. 	Discussion of the constructs of college service (B. Gillis)	

			Bill Gillis reports that we want to define college service.  The Executive Committee has discussed this, and we want to bring this to the senate.  There is a requirement for college service but there is lower involvement in college service.  As a young faculty member Bill has benefited greatly from college service.  What do we construe as college service?  For tenure you need leadership in college service and leadership in departmental service.  Is working outside the faculty governance model considered college service?  The ARPT manual is being revisited, should they be charged with defining service?   

			Faculty comments that for college-wide service there are committees, senate, etc..  For departmental service, the services are less formally defined.  The question is more for the college-wide requirement to be defined since departments define departmental requirements.

			Faculty comment that there is a new culture in ARPT asking “what have you done in the past 5 years?”, but that is not in the manual.  In SOE they have their own rules that supersede the ARPT manual.  The ARPT manual should be updated.  Instead of the last 5 years, it might say from the last reappointment.

			Faculty comments that previously ARPT had on file how departments interpret relative importance of publications, books, etc..  

			Faculty comments that there should be research into what other peer institutions require.  If there could be implemented a point system it could be more transparent.  There is concern that service outside the faculty governance structure would be discounted such as running a media center or women’s center.  Although the center is run through a department it benefits the full campus and should count for campus service.  Running a conference on campus that is inter-departmental counted in the past for college-wide service.  We must remember that for governance you have to get elected, so faculty comments that we should not limit the scope of college service since some new faculty may not be able to get elected.  

			Faculty comments that on ARPT it is confusing to evaluate different departments’ priorities.  The Provost has been encouraging young faculty to do professional development and not necessarily college service.  Of course, you can try to do both but it is difficult.  It is not clear what expectations there are.  

			We are involved in college service through governance structure because the Faculty is responsible for curriculum delivery.  The only way we can discharge responsibilities granted through SUNY is through governance.  If we make equivalent certain items outside of governance, it cannot equal the service through governance.  Our governance structure, along with the union, is crucial and when we don’t participate it we risk forfeiting our authority as SUNY faculty. It is not good for faculty to consider service outside of governance as equivalent in value, although it may be good for the administration. 

			Faculty comments that we are part of a whole. One institution with a shared mission. If we do not place appropriate value on service through governance, we risk losing college-wide faculty input to curriculum, reappointment, tenure, etc. Then who are we as an institution? Administration prefers top-down, hierarchical business model. It is important to safeguard our rights as SUNY faculty.

			Faculty comments that college service also serves the department.

			There needs to be alignment between different interests on campus.  

			UUP service is counted as college-wide service.  Some departments do not recognize it as such.

			There are not enough senior faculty serving.  

				

			VII.  	Other New Business	

			

				A. 	More discussion on college service

			

			Faculty comments that in addition to college service we also need to define leadership.  Note that being compensated does not count as college service, so young faculty must choose between being compensated and counting as service.  There are questions about whether this is true, or has been communicated correctly.

			In the past the college consisted of programs organized holistically as one college, without the structure of schools and deans, and prior to creation of provost office. ARPT always insured a college-wide perspective.  Two decades ago, when faculty governance considered the proposed change to departments grouped into schools, the college was in transition, undergoing master plan amendment. Faculty raised many serious concerns and caveats, and sought assurances that there would always be a college-wide perspective. Governance helps us to maintain this perspective.

			Faculty asks how young faculty deal with nominating but not being elected to college service.  There is always wiggle room in order to make the best judgment.  You can serve without being elected such as ASC and other types of activities.  There are other opportunities to get involved besides elected positions.

			We just want to clearly define and clarify the requirements.

			

			VIII.	Announcements

			

			Ali Ebrahimi announces that tonight there is a Persian event for all with food and music.  Please come.

			Maureen Dolan commends Andy Mattson for his leadership, and thanks him for his collegiality and service as Pro-Tem Chair.

			Minna Barrett thanks Evan Rufrano for his service.  He comes to many things on campus such as AL and parking and Senate.

			

			IX.	Adjournment at 2:09pm	






Faculty Senate Chair Report

December 15, 2017



Appeal for One More At-Large Member for ARPT:   There is still one remaining seat on the ARPT committee that must be filled before the end of the semester.   We are looking for any full-time tenure track faculty member from:

SAS: AS, HI, CP, MA, PH, PY, SY, VA, (not from: BS, EL, ML, PEL.) 

SOB: May be from Accounting.

SOE: May be from Childhood or Adolescence (Exceptional is already represented) and, if on a Joint Appointment, the auxiliary department can't be one already represented on ARPT.

Request for Comment: Strategic Plan.  The revised Strategic Plan Document have been circulated to the college community.  Comments should be sent to Co-Chairs of the Planning Process: Anthony Barbara, Duncan Quarless, Andrew Mattson before December 22, 2017.

Updating ARPT Manual, Request for Proposal: The Faculty Senate Executive Committee has requested that ARPT draft a proposal during the fall of 2018 for the review and update the 2003 ARPT manual to reflect current committee practices.  

Results of Special Election for University Senator & Alternate:

FROM: Nominations and Elections Committee 

SUBJECT: Special Election Results for AY2017-18  

The following are the results of the special election for the Old Westbury representative and alternate to the SUNY University Faculty Senate. Our committee mailed 355 ballots to addresses provided by the Personnel Department. We received 127 valid ballots. As per SUNY University Faculty Senate Bylaws and Procedures, candidates needed a majority of the total votes cast to be elected (i.e. 65).  

SUNY UNIVERSITY SENATOR - One vacancy 

(1) Three-Year Term 

Laurette (Laurie) Morris (PSY-SAS/2020)-T  72 

Runner-Up 

Xavier Marechaux (SOE)-T     52 

SUNY UNIVERSITY SENATOR ALTERNATE – One vacancy  

(1) One-year replacement term 

William (Bill) Gillis (BIO-SAS/2018)-U   111 

    



			

6