GUIDELINES

Follow-Up Reports Guidelines
Effective Date: February 1, 2021

Contents
I.
Purpose
II.
Types of Follow-Up Reports
III.
Follow-Up Report Contents and Organization
IV.
Preparing an Effective Follow-Up Report
I.
Purpose
The Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE or the Commission) seeks to
ensure that institutions are provided with adequate guidance to meet Commission expectations
for written follow-up reports. Additional information about reviews and related proceedings can
be found in Accreditation Activities Guidelines.
II.
Types of Follow-Up Reports
The Commission makes use of several types of follow-up reports depending on the nature and
severity of its concern. These include supplemental information reports (SIR), focused reports,
monitoring reports, monitoring reports following reaffirmation, and show cause reports.
A. Supplemental Information Reports (SIR)
A supplemental information report (SIR) is requested when the institution is in compliance with
all standards for accreditation, requirements of affiliation, policies and procedures, and
applicable federal regulatory requirements but the Commission has determined that some
additional oversight is needed and the institution should demonstrate the sustainability of
implemented corrective measures and/or further evidence of sustained, ongoing institutional
compliance. Supplemental information reports do not denote non-compliance.
In addition, a SIR will be requested following a complex substantive change as a mechanism to
monitor the implementation of a complex substantive change and ensure the submission of all
required approvals. A SIR may be requested following a substantive change action if the
Commission determines that additional oversight is needed to demonstrate continued compliance
after the change is implemented.
A supplemental information report may be followed by a follow-up team visit conducted by peer
evaluators. The Commission staff liaison may accompany the team of peer evaluators. The
purpose of the visit is to verify the information provided in the SIR and determine if the
institution appears to demonstrate ongoing compliance.
B. Focused Reports
A focused report is requested when a serious concern about the institution’s ongoing compliance
with the Commission’s standards for accreditation, requirements of affiliation, policies and

Follow-Up Reports Guidelines

Page 2

procedures, and applicable federal regulatory requirements arises from the Mid-Point Peer
Review (MPPR).
A focused report is always accompanied by a focused team visit conducted by peer evaluators.
The Commission staff liaison may accompany the team of peer evaluators. The purpose of the
visit is to verify the information provided in the focused report and determine if the institution
appears to be in compliance. If this review determines that the institution does not appear to be in
compliance, the Commission will take a non-compliance action.
C. Monitoring Reports
A monitoring report is required when the institution is found out of compliance with one or more
standards for accreditation, requirements of affiliation, policies and procedures, and applicable
federal regulatory requirements and the institution is placed on warning or probation. The
institution should make necessary improvements and address all non-compliance issues.
A monitoring report is always accompanied by a follow-up team visit conducted by peer
evaluators. The Commission staff liaison may accompany the team of peer evaluators. The
purpose of the visit is to verify the information provided in the monitoring report and determine
if the institution appears to be in compliance. A Commission liaison guidance visit will occur
with all non-compliance actions and as directed by the Commission.
D. Monitoring Reports Following Reaffirmation
A monitoring report is required when the institution is reaffirmed following a non-compliance
action. The institution must prepare a written report and evidence that focuses on the
sustainability of corrective measures that have been implemented to maintain ongoing
compliance with the identified Commission’s standards for accreditation, requirements of
affiliation, policies and procedures, and/or federal regulations.
A monitoring report following reaffirmation is always accompanied by a follow-up team visit
when the institution is reaffirmed following probation or show cause actions. A follow-up team
visit may or may not occur for reaffirmation after warning actions, at the discretion of the
Commission.
E. Show Cause Reports
A show cause report is required when an institution is required to show cause why its candidate
for accreditation status or accreditation should not be withdrawn. The institution should continue
to undertake appropriate improvements to address the Commission’s non-compliance concerns
and demonstrate why the institution’s candidate for accreditation status or accreditation should
not be withdrawn. A teach-out plan and if applicable, teach-out agreement(s) are required to be
submitted in conjunction with the show cause report.
A show cause report is always accompanied by a show cause visit conducted by peer evaluators.
The Commission staff liaison may accompany the team of peer evaluators. The purpose of the
visit is to verify the information provided in the monitoring report and verify the institution’s
compliance. A Commission liaison guidance visit will occur with all non-compliance actions and
as directed by the Commission.

Follow-Up Reports Guidelines

Page 3

III.
Follow-Up Report Contents and Organization
All written follow-up reports should include the following sections:
Title page– This page should include the institution’s name, type of report, name of
President (CEO), and the due date.
Table of Contents – Include a table of contents that designates the sections of the report.
Introduction – This section should include, verbatim, the Commission’s accreditation
action with the request for follow-up. It should also orient peer evaluators, through a brief
institutional overview, to major institutional issues that provide appropriate context for
the follow-up report. Page limit: 5 pages maximum.*
Substantive narrative and analysis – This section should offer an honest and forthright
appraisal of the institution’s compliance with each relevant standard for accreditation,
requirement of affiliation, policy and procedure, and/or applicable federal regulatory
requirements. The narrative should include specific references to evidence to support all
assertions. Page limit: 10 pages maximum per standard for accreditation, requirement of
affiliation, or other issue.*
Evidence Inventory – The Evidence Inventory is an organizational tool that allows an
institution to collect evidence and document compliance with the Commission’s
standards for accreditation, requirements of affiliation, policies and procedures, and
applicable federal regulatory requirements. The institution may access the Evidence
Inventory in the secure MSCHE portal and should upload concise and relevant evidence
supporting the assertions made in the narrative.
Conclusion – This section should describe how the institution will sustain compliance
with relevant standards for accreditation, requirements of affiliation, policies and
procedures, and/or applicable federal regulatory requirements going forward. Page limit:
5 pages maximum*.
* Note that all page limits are maximums and that some submissions may often be
shorter.
IV. Preparing an Effective Follow-up Report
The institution will prepare a follow-up report that addresses all of the relevant standards for
accreditation, requirements of affiliation, policies and procedures, applicable federal regulatory
requirements that the Commission has identified.
A. The institution should write the report so that it clearly documents compliance, and
focuses on accomplishments and outcomes, current policies and procedures, not on future
intentions.
B. The institution should provide detailed action plans, specific timelines, accountabilities,
and benchmarks. If institutional progress has been slower than anticipated, explain why
and indicate how and when the work will be finished.

Follow-Up Reports Guidelines

Page 4

C. The institution should be forthright and honest – do not omit relevant information or
report selectively.
D. The institution should be as concise and well-organized as possible. Make sure the report
is clearly written, organized, and easy to follow. Include a Table of Contents and use
headings and bullets.
E. The institution should provide evidence to substantiate all assertions made in the written
report and ensure that evidence has been appropriately analyzed and summarized.
1. Evidence should directly relate to the Commission’s standards for accreditation,
requirements of affiliation, policies and procedures, and/or applicable federal
regulatory requirements.
2. Evidence should be labeled clearly.
3. The institution should include only evidence that is necessary to substantiate
institutional improvements and compliance.
4. The institution should avoid tangential or irrelevant documentation that may
confuse or distract readers.
F. The institution should adhere to all page limits. Quality, not quantity, will assist
Commission representatives in the decision-making process. All submissions must be a
PDF document.
G. The institution should make sure the report is submitted on the due date by the close of
business at 4:30 p.m.
Number:
Effective Date: February 1, 2021
Version: 2021-02-01 EFFECTIVE (technical amendment)
Previously issued: N/A
Approval Date: January 8, 2021 (Approved by Cabinet)
Initial Approval Date: Not required for guidelines
Revisions: February 1, 2021
Related Documents: Accreditation Actions Policy; Accreditation Actions Procedures; Accreditation Activities Guidelines; Accreditation
Review Cycle and Monitoring Procedures; Communication in the Accreditation Process Policy; Communication in the Accreditation Process
Procedures; Follow-Up Reports Guidelines; Maintenance and Retention of Commission Records Policy; Maintenance and Retention of
Commission Records Procedures; Third Party Comments