ACADEMIC

PROGRAM

REVIEW

External reviewers
Overview
The purpose of academic program review is to assure quality through the periodic
assessment of all academic and cognate programs. Information gained from the process is
then used to assist in the development of strategic plans for the program/department as
well as aiding the Division of Academic Affairs and the College in establishing longrange plans.

1) All departments are scheduled for review on a five (5) year cycle. The Academic Vice

President has submitted the timing to the office of the Provost, (SUNY), after
consultation with CAP. In special circumstances- departmental dysfunctionality, recent
mergers etc- departments /programs may be reviewed off cycle.
2) Wherever possible, the review is coordinated with other review processes such as

national accreditation. With respect to national accreditation, the department under

review advises the Office of Academic affairs, (OAA), when an accreditation site visit is
to occur so that the processes can be coordinated
3) Each academic unit under review is responsible for preparing a self-study using the
guidelines provided by CAP.
4) The unit is then reviewed by an external evaluator(s), (EE), and internally by CAP. In
general, EEs are senior faculty from Colleges preferably ones that are similar to SUNY
Old Westbury. They are scholars with expertise in the discipline under review, and are
chosen by the department in consultation with the Office of Academic Affairs. These

evaluators will be paid a small honorarium for their services.

5) A site visit is conducted by the EEs. The site visit shall normally last one day during
which time the EE will meet with administrators, faculty, staff, and students. The

department chair/director or other appropriate department administrator will be
responsible for coordinating the visit, with assistance from OAA. The external evaluator
will also meet with CAP. On completion of the visit the EE is responsible for preparing a
report on the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the department/program. The report
is submitted to the program /department, the Academic Vice President, with a copy to

CAP.

6) Once the report is submitted, CAP works with the department/program to develop a
strategy for addressing the concems that were raised during the review process. These
strategies are then discussed with the Vice President for Academic Affairs. An Action

Plan is then developed. This plan is in effect for the duration of the time between reviews.

OVER,

The department/program is responsible for repor
ting on the progress of the action Plan
during the annual bud get exercise and before plans
are made for final department
allocations by OAA.