Chair’s Report
Full Faculty Meeting 2-11-05
e

e

Regret that minutes of 10-1-04 went astray.
Senate Office secretary.
Changes to today’s agenda:

It has been difficult to keep track of paperwork without a

Janice Haynie, Vice President for Student Affairs, will speak instead of

Facilities Director Sal Ciavirella, who was unable to attend.

e

Welcome to colleague Dr. Patrick O’Sullivan as the new Academic Vice President and Provost of the
College.

e

There has been a transition in the leadership of First Year Experience program. Nancy Sacks, who has
built up a remarkably successful program since taking the position in Fall 2001, is stepping down. Matt
Foglino and others in the Student Government Association are organizing a farewell dinner for Dr.
Sacks on Feb. 15 at 8:30 p.m., following the induction ceremony for the First-Year Honors Society.
The administration has expressed commitment to continuing and building the FYE program. A new

director is to be named soon.

e

Directly after today’s meeting, at 3 p.m., TLC is hosting a presentation by Runi Mukherji, who will be
speaking on her work on the social service needs of the South Asian immigrant community. Everyone is
welcome to attend, learn, and enjoy the “light and healthy” refreshments organized by TLC chair

Alireza Ebrahimi and his committee.
e

The Senate Chair has met with A Ebrahimi to develop Faculty Senate website.

e

The EC has met with the AVP to discuss strategic planning for the campus that will embrace all areas,
academic reorganization, enrollment, Budget and Planning, Space, facilities (HVAC) Curriculum, and
presumably also advising, FYE program, Honors program, and other areas.

e

Faculty are glad to see that the SEMPRA energy project is now underway. This project was initiated
five years ago by Maureen Dolan working in collaboration with NYSERDA. We look forward to
further progress in implementing the Campus Capital Plan, developed in 2001-2002 in a college-wide
effort chaired by Dr. Dolan and facilitated by a team of architects, engineers, and educational planners
retained by the SUNY Construction Fund.

e

It is regrettable that the trees in the Atrium were chopped down. Alumni have fond memories of them as
the setting for commencement receptions, and many members of the campus community admired and
enjoyed them.

--Caroline G. Sawyer