Owning Our Future
The Fall 2020 Re-Start
A Framework for Instruction and Operations
during the COVID-19 Pandemic

Submitted by:
Calvin O. Butts, III
President

1

Table of Contents

Executive Summary ........................................................................................................................... 3
I.

Reducing Density for Fall 2020 ................................................................................................. 5
1.1 Instructional Methods .............................................................................................................. 5
1.2 Researchers on Campus .......................................................................................................... 6
1.3 Residence Hall Operations ...................................................................................................... 6
1.4 Administrative and Campus Operations ................................................................................ 7
1.5 Campus Visitors ....................................................................................................................... 7

II.

Health & Safety ....................................................................................................................... 8

2.1 Screening & Testing.................................................................................................................. 8
2.2 Contact Tracing & Containment ............................................................................................. 9
2.3 Personal Protective Equipment .............................................................................................. 11
2.4 Social Distancing Protocols ................................................................................................... 11
2.5 Hygiene Protocols .................................................................................................................. 13
III. Cleaning .................................................................................................................................... 15
3.1 Priority Cleaning .................................................................................................................... 15
3.2 Routine Cleaning ................................................................................................................... 15
3.3 Cleaning When Infection is Reported .................................................................................. 16
3.4 Cleaning Products and Supplies ........................................................................................... 16
IV. Support and Development Activities ........................................................................................17
4.1 Campus-wide Support ............................................................................................................17
4.2 For Students ...........................................................................................................................17
4.3 Faculty & Staff ....................................................................................................................... 19
V. Preparedness in the Event of Re-Emergence ............................................................................ 21
5.1 Academic Transition.............................................................................................................. 21
5.2 Campus Life Transition ........................................................................................................ 21
5.3 Administrative Transition..................................................................................................... 22
VI. Communications and Education .............................................................................................. 23
6.1 Communicating the Re-Start ................................................................................................ 23
6.2 Communicating in the Event of Infection ............................................................................. 24
6.3 Ongoing Education ................................................................................................................ 24
6.4 Emergency Shutdown Communications .............................................................................. 25
VII. Financial Implications ............................................................................................................. 26
Appendix ..........................................................................................................................................28

2

Executive Summary
All associated with SUNY Old Westbury can safely say the spring 2020 semester was like none
ever experienced before. Of course, our campus is not alone in that sentiment as colleges and
universities across SUNY, the state and nation had to make unprecedented adjustments as a
result of the Coronavirus pandemic.

Guiding Principles
Every planning meeting and discussion for fall 2020 centered on the following guiding
principles:
1. Ensure Safety: Protect the health and safety of students, faculty and staff
2. Sustain Academic and Learning Excellence: Enable students to achieve learning
goals in each course and make progress toward their larger educational objectives
3. Promote Access and Equity: Minimize inequity in learning opportunities among
students in different social, health, and economic circumstances
4. Achieve Academic and Operational Synergies
5. Provide Stability: Allow for educational and operational functions to be conducted
with minimal disruptions for students, faculty and staff.
6. Prepare for the Long-term: Create an academic and operational model that may be
sustainable beyond one semester if the situation requires

Plan Development
The College's plan was developed through the strengths of its faculty and staff. Leading the
effort is the College's Coronavirus Leadership Team, which is chaired by the college president
and includes leaders from academic affairs, business and finance, student affairs, human
resources/legal, student health, information technology services, advancement, public and
media relations, maintenance and facilities and University Police.
Critical in this plan's development were the efforts of more than 50 members of the College's
faculty and staff who painstakingly reviewed all aspects of the College's academic, campus life,
and administrative functions and then applied the guiding principles to make recommendations
for how the college should proceed.
These professionals acted primarily through three work groups:
•

•

•

Academic Contingency: Developed in coordination with the Old Westbury Faculty
Senate, this group explored instructional modalities, faculty preparation, technological
solutions and policy impacts before making its recommendation.
Student Life: Comprised chiefly of professionals from the Division of Student Affairs,
this group reviewed spring 2020 experiences and impacts, reviewed potential operating
models for housing, athletics, student development and more, and developed plans and
potential programs to support student engagement for fall 2020.
Enrollment/Retention: This group featured professionals from a wide spectrum of
campus offices and services and focused on policies, procedures and practices related to
3

the engagement and retention of current students through the registration process and
the recruitment and solidification of new student enrollee pools at both the
undergraduate and graduate level.
While our region, state and nation pull slowly into what we hope will be a recovery, the work to
restart instruction and operations for fall 2020 now takes precedence. Using the insights and
experiences of a spring like no other, SUNY Old Westbury remains committed to giving its
students a fall to remember.

4

I.

Reducing Density for Fall 2020

1.1 Instructional Methods
Social distancing requirements (approx. 24 square foot per person) will require SUNY Old
Westbury to offer predominantly distant methods of instruction for fall. In this model,
approximately 90% of course sections will be offered via distance learning with the remaining
10% identified as facilities-dependent courses with limited face-to-face instruction.
Distance Learning courses will be offered in two varieties:
•
•

NET Courses: Traditional online courses with asynchronous instruction
Remote Courses: Online courses offered with synchronous instruction scheduled in the
same manner as a face-to-face course might be structured.

Facilities-dependent courses will also feature a significant amount of synchronous or
asynchronous distance instruction with campus visitation geared towards critical laboratory
experiences, studio sessions, proctored exams, and similar high-value, high-contact activities.
Student learning assessments will be conducted in a manner suited to the remote, traditional
online and facility-dependent course modalities. A combination of proctoring options will be
employed for examination periods, which include online proctoring software service solutions,
videoconferencing tools and limited on-campus exam rooms.
Expected Impact on Student In-person Attendance
The College will open all classes via distance learning for at least the first two weeks of the fall
semester before allowing participants in Facilities-dependent courses to visit campus. Once that
limited schedule of campus visits commences, it is expected that no more than 10 percent of the
College’s student body (approximately 500) would visit campus per week, with those visits
distributed across the College’s five-day, eight class period schedule. This schedule is expected to
provide for visits no more frequently than once every week per student. All other students would
not attend classes on campus for the duration of the semester.
Expected Impact on Faculty Attendance
The College employs 185 full-time faculty and approximately 225 adjunct faculty in a traditional
semester. Of these, approximately 40 will be engaged in facilities-dependent instruction and will
be the only faculty expected to visit campus to uphold their instructional responsibilities.
Expected Impact on Academic Calendar
There are no tangible changes to the College’s Academic Calendar, but one requirement is being
added for Facilities-dependent courses related to COVID -19. SUNY Old Westbury will begin
classes as previously planned on August 31 with final examination week scheduled to commence
on December 16. Schedules for facilities-dependent classes will be coordinated so that no oncampus instructional sessions occur in these courses after November 25, resulting in no oncampus instruction after the Thanksgiving Break.
5

1.2 Researchers on Campus
Research and scholarly activities are a vital component of the evolution of a faculty member's
expertise and, therefore, their ability to educate and serve their students.
Scientific Research
Scientific research will continue, as the research labs in the Natural Science Building are
enclosed and assigned to two faculty members per academic year. In total, the College has 15
faculty conducting research in these lab spaces. Lab time will be rotated to ensure no more than
one faculty researcher and one assistant is present in the space at a time.
Non-Scientific Research
Much of the research, scholarly and creative works of the faculty in many disciplines will
continue remotely. Some of the creative works in the areas of studio and media arts may require
on-campus activities. This work will be facilitated following reduced density and social
distancing protocols. Should the need arise for faculty in other disciplines to periodically return
to the campus, such will be permitted in accordance with campus wide efforts to maintain low
population density presence within academic departments.

1.3 Residence Hall Operations
SUNY Old Westbury will offer no residential opportunities on its campus for fall
2020, reducing the approximate population of 1,100 resident students to zero. In addition to
not housing its own students, this includes the absence for the fall of students from New York
Institute of Technology, which rents halls on campus.
This difficult decision was made in the interest of ensuring the health and safety of our own
students, NYIT students and our community at large with the likelihood of a second wave of
COVID-19 in the fall.
The State of New York, with the assistance of the Army Corps of Engineers, constructed a 1,024bed Alternate Care Facility on the College’s campus in spring 2020 to assist with regional
healthcare needs during the pandemic. While the facility has not been used to date, New York
State Governor Andrew Cuomo has required it to be left available through the fall flu season as a
precautionary preparation against a second wave of COVID-19.
In the development of the facility, the expectation was made clear that the College would need to
keep up to three of its Woodlands Residence Halls available to house medical personnel in the
event the Alternate Care Facility on campus must be activated.
By foregoing student housing for the semester, the College will:
•
•

Ensure the ability to rapidly open the Alternate Care Facility for the good of the region.
Be able to commit to students that their experience will be safe from the impacts of
Alternate Care Facility
6

•

Eliminate potential disruptions for students who might otherwise experience a hasty
"move-out."

1.4 Administrative and Campus Operations
The College expects to continue to limit the number of employees on campus each day to
contribute to a reduced overall density. SUNY Old Westbury traditionally employs
approximately 325 non-instructional employees during a fall semester.
An essential personnel pool of approximately 80 will arrive on campus each day. This pool will
include:
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Directors and/or managers of key operational areas (business & finance, academic
affairs, student affairs, maintenance/facilities, human resources, purchasing, business
compliance, financial aid, bursar, registrar)
Custodial workers and grounds crew members
Technology service providers
Mailroom staff
Campus Bus Drivers
Auxiliary Services personnel
University Police Officers
Others as assigned

At the divisional and departmental level, schedule rotations will be created to allow for both oncampus and work-from-home activities among the remaining 245 personnel as conditions and
college needs warrant.
Schedules for on-campus attendance will be coordinated with the respective building
coordinators on campus to ensure reduced density is achieved on a daily basis and that arrival
and departure schedules are staggered to avoid crowding conditions at points of entry and exit.
To ensure social distancing can be maintained, no more than 50% of staff in a
given area will be on campus on a given day in most functional areas of the
campus.

1.5 Campus Visitors
In general, the College will seek to allow only invited guests to campus, and those guests will
undergo healthcare screening upon arrival via an emailed survey. Please see section 2.1 for
details.
The College will consider providing campus space for external events subject to an
exception/review process for mission-critical events that can meet physical distancing and other
applicable safety standards as specified with reference to federal, state and local guidelines and
directives.

7

II. Health & Safety
2.1 Screening & Testing
Daily Screening
Students and Employees
All employees and students who have been instructed to return to campus must self-monitor
their health and symptoms every day before arriving.
Employees and students will be expected to login to the College’s ConnectOW Portal and
complete a daily COVID-19 screening form prior to reporting to campus. The form will ask:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Name
Email address
Department
Supervisor (for employees)
Instructor: (for students)
Four health-related questions:
o Do you currently have a fever?
o Have you had any known close contact with a person confirmed or suspected to
have COVID-19 in the past 14 days?
o Do you currently have any of the following symptoms?
 Cough (new or worsening)
 Shortness of breath (new or worsening)
 Troubled breathing (new or worsening)
 Chills
 Muscle pains (new or worsening)
 Headache (new or worsening)
 Sore throat (new or worsening)
 New loss of taste or smell
o Have you tested positive for COVID-19 through a diagnostic test in the past 14
days?

If all answers are “no,” the user may come to campus and a record of the survey will be available
to Human Resources (for employees) or the Student Health Center (for students) for use in
tracking health and safety conditions on campus.
If the answer to any of the above questions is “yes,” a message will appear stating that the user
should not visit campus. An email announcing the result will be sent to Human Resources (for
employees), the user's supervisor (for employees) and/ or the Student Health Center (for
students) so that precautionary actions can be taken if necessary and for use in tracking health
and safety conditions on campus. Also:
•

Employees will be instructed to call their primary health care provider or the local health
system COVID-19 hotline.
8

•

Students will be required to inform their professors and call either their primary health
care provider or the local health system COVID-19 hotline.

Visitors & Contractors
In general, the College will seek to allow only invited, scheduled visitors and vendors to campus.
For guests of administrative and/or academic departments, the department responsible for the
invitation must email a healthcare screening survey to the guest, which must be returned via
email to the inviting department in the morning before the guest is scheduled to arrive. If all
answers are “no,” the guest may come to campus. If any response is "yes," the guest will be
advised not to visit campus. The inviting department must send all completed healthcare
screenings to Human Resources upon receipt.
Contractors working on health or safety mission-critical projects must comply with the State
University of New York Directive 1C-14 COVID-19 Procedures for Consultants and Contractors
before they are allowed on campus. The Office of Capital Planning and the Facilities Department
are responsible for monitoring the work of these contractors.
Testing
SUNY Old Westbury does not plan to run a COVID-19 diagnostic test on members of its campus
community. Testing in this way is not feasible because:
•
•

•

Currently all COVID-19 tests available for use in our Student Health Center are
unreliable and not worth the investment.
A better option is to refer students to area labs or urgent care centers (City MD, Lab
Corp, ProHealth) for reliable, accurate COVID-19 testing. Fortunately, our surrounding
area has many healthcare facilities and labs offering free COVID-19 testing to individuals
with symptoms or exposure.
The commuting nature of the student body in what is primarily a distance setting means
constituents, when symptomatic, would likely seek testing in their communities and the
college would not be privy to the results of those tests.

Testing will only be requested when symptoms are present or reported or the party involved has
reported recent proximity to a person who has tested positive for COVID-19.

2.2 Contact Tracing & Containment
Communications and Contact Tracing
In the event a student or employee reports symptoms during daily healthcare screening or the
onset of symptoms while on the campus, that party will be told to go home immediately and
asked to contact their personal healthcare provider.
All events of this nature are to be reported to the Student Health Center. The
Student Health Center director has an ongoing relationship with the Nassau County
Department of Health and is designated as the College's liaison with the agency for the COVID19 emergency. The Student Health Center director will also maintain contact with the State
9

University of New York to assist in ensuring accurate reporting and record-keeping of cases
system-wide.
The College has been informed by leaders of Nassau County that the Nassau County Department
of Health will be conducting contact tracing for cases involving the college. In addition, five staff
members of the Student Health Center have completed training via Johns Hopkins University to
serve as contact tracers. This number of tracers exceeds the number recommended by the
Commission on Independent Colleges & Universities, which suggests 3 tracers for every 10,000
students.
Containment & Instructional Continuance
Upon a positive test, students and faculty/staff would be expected to self-isolate in their homes.
As the College is not offering a housing option for fall, no areas for isolation will be required on
campus.
In addition to reporting a case to the county health department, the Student Health Center will
maintain contact with those who have reported a positive COVID-19 diagnosis to gauge progress
and needs so that assistance can be arranged if necessary.
During the spring semester deans and department chairs were asked to anticipate that other
fulltime and adjunct faculty might be called upon to substitute for faculty who are unable to
continue teaching. Department chairs will continue to include such contingency planning in
their department meetings and communications.
Caring for Vulnerable Populations
As always, students with pre-existing conditions and/or weakened autoimmune systems are
encouraged to contact the Student Health Center and the Office of Services for Students with
Disabilities (OSSD) so the necessary accommodations can be made to ensure accessibility and
inclusivity. The health and safety of our students is the College's utmost priority.
Employees with weakened immune systems or pre-existing conditions will be encouraged to
work from home if that is practical or accommodations will be investigated to enable them to
work on campus safely.
Trends and Benchmarks for Action
Central in keeping the campus safe will be the ongoing review and analysis of data gained
through the healthcare screening process.
The Student Health Center staff and the Office of Human Resources will continuously monitor
students’ and staffs’ daily COVID-19 screening responses to detect changes in the health status
of the college community. The New York State Department of Health Regional Metrics
Dashboard and local alerts from the Nassau County Department of Health will be used to track
the prevalence of COVID-19 in the community and inform the College's future decision making.

10

2.3 Personal Protective Equipment
Campus Requirement
Appropriate use of cloth face coverings/disposable masks is critical in minimizing risks to
others.
All who come to SUNY Old Westbury will be required to wear masks or other face coverings if
they can medically tolerate doing so. Masks/face coverings will be required in all common areas
including elevators, lobbies, hallways, restrooms, when traveling around offices, etc., and in any
instance indoors or outdoors where social distancing of 6-feet between parties cannot be
achieved (including classrooms and laboratories).
Acceptable face coverings include but are not limited to cloth (e.g. homemade sewn, quick cut,
bandana), disposable masks, medical grade surgical masks, and face shields.
Employees and students will be provided disposable masks (if they don’t already have one) daily
that must be worn as noted above. Visitors to campus will be required to bring and wear a mask
of their own.
Equipment Availability
The College currently has 60,000 disposable masks at the ready for fall 2020. These masks will
be distributed at the division and departmental level, in quantities commensurate with expected
campus population for each area, in August 2020. Additionally, supplies of masks will be placed
in all instructional locations that are scheduled to house Facilities-dependent courses.
Reordering of disposable masks will be triggered when the College's supply diminishes to 10% of
the current quantity.
Additionally, the College has 2500 medical grade surgical masks and 250 N95 respirators
reserved for healthcare workers, University Police and other approved personnel with taskspecific hazards as determined by SUNY Old Westbury’s Office of Environmental Health and
Safety. Reordering of these materials will be triggered when the College's supply diminishes to
10% of current quantities.

2.4 Social Distancing Protocols
Public Spaces
All members of the campus community must make every effort to maintain the six-foot social
distancing standard. Signage is in preparation and floor and/or walk markings will be in place to
provide visual cues.
The following public spaces will be closed:
•

Campus Library reading/study/computer areas

The following public event spaces are being converted to support academic instruction:
11

•
•
•

Student Union Multipurpose Room A
Student Union Multipurpose Room B
Student Union Multipurpose Room C

Instructional Spaces and Functions
While the method of instruction will dramatically lessen the population of faculty and students
on campus on a given day, the College will implement a variety of protocols to ensure social
distancing.
Facilities-dependent courses will be taught in classrooms and laboratory spaces whose physical
layouts have been modified to ensure social distancing. Examples of the spaces that will be used
for such courses include:
•

•

•

The Natural Science Building: The NSB currently has a large instructional lab with a
maximum capacity of approximately 150 students. Through staggered scheduling of
critical high-touch activities, no more than 40 students are expected to be scheduled to
use this space at a given time.
Media Production Facilities: The Media Innovation Center in the Campus Center
includes among its facilities a large television studio and individual, enclosed production
bays. These sites can accommodate small group instruction and time for individual
student work. The College's radio/audio production studios in the Student Union can
also be used for limited small group instruction.
Visual Arts Studios: The F-Wing of the Campus Center houses a large, open
studio/classroom for the Visual Arts Department. Slight modifications, including the
removal of furniture, will make the space more conducive to required social distancing
practices.

The uses and procedures for additional academic spaces include:
•

•

•

Classrooms: The preponderance of classrooms on campus cannot adequately house
full class attendance while maintaining the suggested six-foot spacing. Large spaces
including the multipurpose rooms in the Student Union, the multipurpose room in the
New Academic Building, the Natural Science Building lecture hall and the two campus
theaters are considered to serve as instructional space.
The Campus Library: The physical library space will be closed. Services will be
provided online which will include virtual desk hours, video-conferenced instructional
workshop periods and online chat messaging. The limited face-to-face operations will be
conducted by appointment to assist technology insecure students who participate in the
College’s laptop and tablet loan program.
Faculty Offices: Most faculty offices on campus are not conducive to social distancing.
For this reason, office hours will be conducted virtually for the fall semester. If a faculty
member must meet a student on campus, masks must be worn and meetings should take
place within a space where social distancing can be achieved.

Administrative Spaces and Functions

12

The College expects to continue to maintain a reduced density by limiting the number of
employees on campus each day. As stated earlier, no more than 50% of staff in a given area will
be on campus on a given day in most functional areas of the campus.
Campus Offices
In administrative offices, the college will adhere to the six-feet spacing standard for social
distancing and require that masks be worn at “forward-facing” functions where interaction with
the public takes place. Where they do not exist already, protective barriers (Plexiglas, etc.) will
be installed.
Where the six-foot standard cannot be maintained or where departments function with less than
10 staff members, schedules may be staggered to provide for employees to work both from
campus and remotely on alternating bases or to work completely remotely if needed.
Conference and Meeting Rooms
Virtual tools will be used for meetings to the greatest extent possible to reduce the number of
face-to-face interactions occurring. When face-to-face meetings are required, they will be
conducted in spaces that allow for social distancing and masks are to be worn.
Occupancy caps for all conference and meeting rooms will be reduced to allow for 24-squarefeet per participant, with new occupancy caps posted at the entry of each facility.
Communal Areas
Shared kitchens and employee lounges will be limited in capacity to allow for social distancing.
Student lounges in the Student Union will be reorganized, with furniture removed where
necessary, to achieve social distancing.
Dining Facilities
With no residential students on campus and a very limited number of commuter students and
faculty visiting campus, Chartwells will operate only the College's Atrium Cafe, providing
takeout options and Starbucks products. Line queues will be marked via floor and wallmounted signs to provide for 6-foot intervals. Protective barriers (Plexiglas, etc.) will be
installed where not already present. Tables will be rearranged or removed to allow for proper
social distancing.
University Police Department
Common areas within the headquarters building, including locker rooms and kitchenette, are to
be used by one person at a time. No more than two people at a time will populate the arrest
processing room.

2.5 Hygiene Protocols
Hand Hygiene
Signage will be present at prominent locations across campus promoting hand hygiene
procedures. Those procedures include:
•

Regular hand washing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds should be done
o Before and after eating.

13

o
o
o
o
o

After sneezing, coughing, or nose blowing.
After using the restroom.
Before handling food.
After touching or cleaning surfaces that may be contaminated.
After using shared equipment and supplies like electronic equipment such as
keyboards, mice and phones.

Alcohol-based hand sanitizer dispensers are already located in most public spaces on campus.
This supply is being augmented by the installation of more dispensers during the summer. Each
unit will dispense New York State Clean sanitizer. Such areas will include:
•
•

Building entrances/exits
Points of reception

Said dispensers will contain sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol. Signage accompanying the
dispensers will note that visibly soiled hands should be washed with soap and water as hand
sanitizer is not effective on visibly soiled hands. Signage will also remind users that alcoholbased hand sanitizers can be flammable and may not be suitable for certain areas on campus.
Respiratory Hygiene
Similar to hand hygiene, signage will be placed in high traffic areas to remind the campus
community of proper respiratory hygiene practices, including:
•
•

Covering coughs and sneezes with tissues or the corner of elbow
Disposing of soiled tissues immediately after use.

14

III. Cleaning
The College is committed to meeting the guidelines of the Center for Disease Control and the
New York State Department of Health.

3.1 Priority Cleaning
Priority cleaning on campus is defined as cleaning that takes place multiple times in the
workday. Custodial supervisors will maintain logs that include the date, time and scope of
cleaning/disinfecting that took place.
The locations identified for priority cleaning and the planned number of daily cleanings are:
Restrooms
As per CDC guidelines, bathrooms will be cleaned three or more times daily in those areas where
facilities-dependent courses are taking place and in areas where essential staff members
regularly report.
Building entryways and high traffic public areas
Vacuuming/damp-mopping of floors and cleaning of high-touch surfaces in entryways to each
building and in high traffic public areas such as the hallways of the New Academic Building,
Natural Science Building and the Campus Center Atrium will take place at least twice daily.
Classrooms/Labs
Spaces used for facilities-dependent courses will be thoroughly cleaned after each use.
Scheduling of the spaces will be staggered so that no concurrent use of such facilities takes place
to allow time for cleaning.
Dining Areas
While the number of dining outlets in operation will be minimized, counters, tables, and chairs
will be cleaned and disinfected multiple times a day.

3.2 Routine Cleaning
As part of standard infection control practices, routine cleaning will be rigorous and ongoing.
Routine cleaning is defined as cleaning that occurs daily whenever possible and no less than
once every 72 hours. Custodial supervisors will maintain logs that include the date, time and
scope of cleaning/disinfecting that took place.
Surfaces touched most frequently will be prioritized for routine cleaning because these surfaces
can be reservoirs for germs and an exposure pathway for transmission to people through contact
with these surfaces.
Examples of priority areas for routine cleaning on campus include:
15

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Door handles and push plates
Handrails
Kitchen and bathroom faucets
Desks and chairs
Counters
Appliance surfaces
Light switches

•
•
•
•

Handles on equipment (e.g., carts)
Remote controls
Shared computers, keyboards and
mice
Shared electronics and phones

Low traffic areas, due to reduced or no on-site staffing presence, will receive less frequent
attention than regularly staffed areas.
The College will also encourage employees to clean their own workspaces and devices and will
provide disinfectant wipes. Currently, the College has 60,000 disinfectant wipes on hand, which
will be distributed to campus offices upon request.

3.3 Cleaning When Infection is Reported
In the event an individual who has visited campus is confirmed to have COVID-19, cleaning and
disinfection, at a minimum, will take place in all heavy transit areas and on high-touch surfaces.
In addition, the College will:
•

•
•
•
•

Close off areas used by the person who is suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19.
Operations in areas in close proximity to the affected area may not be altered if the
affected area can be suitably confined.
Open outside doors and windows to increase air circulation in the area.
Wait 24 hours before you clean and disinfect. If 24 hours is not feasible, wait as long as
possible.
Clean and disinfect all areas used by the person suspected or confirmed to have COVID19, such as offices, classrooms, bathrooms, and common areas.
Once the area has been appropriately cleaned and disinfected, it can be reopened for use.

If more than seven days have passed since the person who is suspected or confirmed to have
COVID-19 visited or used the facility, additional cleaning and disinfection is not necessary, but
routine cleaning and disinfection should continue.

3.4 Cleaning Products and Supplies
Cleaning supplies are procured by the Maintenance and Facilities Department, which requires
its supplies to meet current guidance of the New York State Health Department and the CDC.
Agents currently in use include:
•
•

Virex II 256 – One step Disinfectant Cleaner & Deodorant
Mediclean – Germicidal Cleaner Concentrate
16

IV. Support and Development Activities
4.1 Campus-wide Support
Campus Transportation
Transportation at SUNY Old Westbury is utilized principally by student-residents but
significantly by commuters as well. As student housing is not expected for the fall, the campus
bus service schedule will be reduced and aligned with the schedule for facilities-dependent
courses, once finalized by the Office of Academic Affairs. Drivers will be required to wear masks
as will passengers and social distancing signage will be placed prominently. Drivers will
encourage masks and distancing but are not able to enforce. Obviously, if face-to-face
instructional opportunities were to increase in any way, the transportation schedule would be
increased to conform.
Panther Pantry
The Panther Food Pantry is available for students, faculty and staff on our campus. The food
pantry provides access to food and other necessities for those in need. The pantry is located in
the Student Union, Room 301b. The pantry is open Tuesday 12 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. and
Wednesday 12 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Access to the food pantry is available outside those hours in
case of emergency.

4.2 For Students
Academic Services
Academic Offices
The college will schedule the on-campus work of secretaries for academic departments and
schools so that no more than 25% (and often less) of the staff visits campus daily. When not on
campus, department staff will continue to work remotely using virtual technologies.
Academic Advising
Will interact as much as possible through virtual means. No more than two staff members per
department will be on campus daily.
Tutoring Services
The majority of services will be conducted by appointment virtually or will be provided directly
in the remote instruction classrooms.
Educational Opportunity Program
Will be prepared to interact as much as possible through virtual means. As face-to-face services
are often important, EOP will be available by appointment to accommodate students. The EOP
campus offices will be staffed in keeping with reduced density guidelines and available to
provide services on a limited schedule. Updates on that schedule will be posted on the College
website.
17

Services for Students with Disabilities
The Office of Services for Students with Disabilities will provide accommodations, access and
advocacy remotely, including the provisions of accessibility hardware and software, note taking,
reader, interpreter and scribe services. Proctoring of students with disabilities will take place
with the rest of the class unless special circumstances necessitate individualized proctoring.
Specialty Programs (First-Year, Honors College, etc.)
Will interact as much as possible through virtual means. No more than two staff members per
department will be on campus daily. Face-to-face services, if required, will be conducted by
appointment only.
Information Technology Services
The College's ITS Service Desk will provide remote tech support to all registered students.
Additionally, remote support will be available for students as they engage with Blackboard
Collaborate.
Technology Insecure Students
Students faced with technology insecurity can access assistance as follows:
1.

2.

The College will make devices and other resources available for students who qualify
under the requirements of the CARES Act. Funding from this source will be used to
provide these resources.
The EOP Program will be providing its students with laptop devices. Service for the
devices will be provided by Information Technology Services (ITS).

Campus Life/Student Organizations
Center for Student Leadership and Involvement/Campus Activities
The campus will not host in-person events that are open to the public during the fall 2020
semester. Instead, we will encourage departments and programs to host virtual events. The
College will work with its Student Government Association, which organizes, funds and
coordinates more than 350 student clubs on campus, to develop meaningful ways for all clubs to
meet virtually and continue their club activities online.
The Division of Student Affairs is establishing a working group to develop virtual student life
events with particular emphasis upon cultivating a sense of belonging for new students.
The College is also investigating the creation of a virtual Student Union by collaborating with the
Campus Activities Board for late night and day programs, as well as office hours and services.
Student Development Offices
Offices related to Career Planning & Development, Residential Life, Student Affairs, Dean of
Students, Student Conduct, and Orientation will function as much as possible through virtual
means. Meeting with individual or small groups of students, whether in-person or virtually, will
be done by appointment. Any in-person exchange will require the use of masks and a meeting
space that provides for socially distant spacing. Meetings and programs will be conducted
remotely and individual assistance will be provided either in response to inquiries (telephone,
email, etc.) or by appointment.
18

Intercollegiate Athletics and Campus Recreation
The development of the Alternative Care Facility on campus required the use of all athletic
amenities on campus. Currently, the F. Ambrose Clark Recreational Center fieldhouse, locker
rooms, and meeting space house facilities that were renovated to meet the specific needs of the
Alternate Care Facility. In addition, the Panther Park soccer field, practice field and the baseball
and softball fields that comprise the Jackie Robinson Athletic Complex now house tents and
supportive infrastructure for the Alternate Care Facility.
Administrative aspects of the intercollegiate athletics program will function from the Clark
Center as long as the Alternate Care Facility is not in use. Activities related to practice, sports
medicine, and intercollegiate contests will occur off campus as no facilities are available on
campus due to the care facility. Students and coaches will be bound by the health and safety
requirements of those facilities where practices and games will be held. SUNY Old Westbury
has an agreement in place with Farmingdale State College, whose facilities will be used for
practices and home contest dates.
Recreational sports programs are suspended for the foreseeable future due the presence of the
Alternate Care Facility.
Bookstore
Under low-density the bookstore may be open 1-2 days each week depending on the number of
students on campus. If no students are on campus, the Bookstore will operate fully online.
Psychological and Physical Health
Student Health Center
The Student Health Center will operate on an appointment only basis and use tele-health
practices to triage and screen students. Staffing schedules will be staggered to allow both for
lower density and to limit exposure among colleagues in the event a staff member is afflicted
with COVID-19. Preventative care services will be offered to students.
Counseling & Psychological Wellness
The Office of Counseling and Psychological Wellness Services will operate on an appointment
basis and will provide treatment, both psychological and psychiatric, via tele-health, utilizing a
combination of video-chats (Microsoft Teams) and phone appointments. CaPWS staff will
continue to coordinate refill services to clients who are prescribed psychotropic medication.

4.3 Faculty & Staff
Instructional Support
The Instructional Design Unit and the Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CETL)
will provide instructional resources for faculty. The faculty development resources will
incorporate available SUNY based supports (e.g., SUNY Workplace Groups for Remote Teaching
in the Disciplines, SUNY Remote Teaching Institute, Checklist for Remote
Teaching). Instructional Design will provide training activities during the summer and fall
semester.

19

Those lab activities taking place in a NET or Remote instruction modality will be virtualized,
with the following tools available:
•
•

Windows Virtual Desktops available to Faculty and Students remotely
Remote access Gateway for on campus labs that cannot be virtualized (i.e. - Adobe
Creative Suite, Scientific and Computer Science applications)

Instructional Design – Training and Support
The College's instructional designers will offer ongoing support through the summer and fall,
including:
•
•
•
•

Blackboard Learn training – Sessions on Ally, Collaborate, Basic and Intermediate Level
courses on how to use Blackboard Synchronously or Asynchronously
Remote Instruction Mode – Synchronous Training Modules available to Faculty
One to one support sessions available to faculty
Assistance with video platforms – Panopto, Collaborate, MS Teams

Remote Instruction for Facilities Dependent Classes
For High Touch Courses that are Facilities dependent the classroom, lab or studios have been
equipped with
•
•

Remote Access Capabilities (Web Cameras, Microphones) to allow participation and
interaction between remotely attending students and students present in class
Course lectures, Lab experiments, in class course content can be live streamed
synchronously and/or captured, edited and stored in Panopto for asynchronous use by
the student.

Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
The New York State Employee Assistance Program (EAP) was established in 1983 to help state
employees balance the demands of work, home, and life. EAP is a Work-Life Services benefit
sponsored jointly by labor and management. As an employer, the state recognizes that
employees are subject to stress and pressures that can affect their ability to be effective at work.
The EAP Coordinator & Wellness Ambassador understands the unique culture of their agencies
and can recommend appropriate resources for state employees.

20

V. Preparedness in the Event of ReEmergence
Should a second wave of COVID-19 in fall 2020 force closures in the Long Island region as the
first wave did in the spring, SUNY Old Westbury will be in a strong position to smoothly
transition to completely remote operations. Our expectation is that movement to reduce further
our density will be made in reaction to publicly declared requirements at either the county or
state level.
Listed here are how such a transition would be made for academics, campus life, and
administrative operations.

5.1 Academic Transition
SUNY Old Westbury will be well-positioned in the event that we experience another disruption
to our academic course delivery in fall 2020. Virtually every course delivered this fall will
already be either fully online or online with limited face-to-face interactions for facility
dependent courses. The model puts a heavy emphasis on the availability of NET and Remote
courses which have no in-person elements on campus. Courses that begin the semester in a
distance learning format will remain in a distance learning format throughout the semester.
Instructors of facility dependent courses will prepare contingency plans in case the public health
situation requires the closure of campus. The contingency plan should be clearly articulated in
the syllabus and explained to students in the beginning of the semester. All courses that start
with on-site components will be prepared to pivot to a remote status if circumstances require.
The College is also in a position of strength in offering student support for academic success.
Tutoring services have adapted well, and we will continue with tutoring support to both virtual
and limited in-person interactions in the fall.

5.2 Campus Life Transition
Due to the absence of students living on campus and the use of virtual technologies for the
delivery of most services for fall, the transition of campus life should public health requirements
shift is expected to be smooth as well.
Areas that will be most impacted would include:
•

•

Dining Facilities: Without students on campus the main dining facilities will be closed
with one retail outlet open to serve “grab & go” selections to those on campus. If even
less activity, employees and visitors may be required to bring their own lunches from
home. If the Alternate Care Facility is activated, our main dining facility may be used to
serve and support their personnel.
Intercollegiate Athletics: Intercollegiate athletic practices and contests, which are
already scheduled to occur off-site, will follow guidelines and directives issued by the
NCAA and the Skyline Conference.
21

5.3 Administrative Transition
Here also the planned widespread use of virtual technologies and "work-from-home"
opportunities in fall 2020 would be expected to smooth the transition should it be required.
With the College seeking to return employees to campus in a slow, phased and methodical way
in order to reduce density on campus, administrative units that will already be conducting a
majority of their functions remotely would be in a position to continue to do so if public health
restrictions must be enhanced.

22

VI. Communications and Education
Communicating with its constituents and local community and educating both on the practices
and procedures in place for fall 2020 will be of vital importance for SUNY Old Westbury.

6.1 Communicating the Re-Start
Leadership Messaging
Leadership Messaging relates to messages conveyed via email from campus leaders on the
overall re-start effort and on specific operational or policy adjustments required in advance of,
and during, the restart process. The first Leadership Message concerning the restart will be sent
by the College President to the entire campus community announcing the approved plan and
key next steps. In general, Leadership Messages will be distributed by the following officials:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

College President
Acting Provost/Senior Vice President, Academic Affairs
Senior Vice President, Business & Finance, and CFO
Vice President for Student Affairs
Assistant to the President for Administration
Student Health Center Director
University Police Chief

College Website
An "Owning Our Future: Fall 2020" section of the College website is in development to provide
information on COVID-19, safety and hygiene recommendations, and information to specific
operations and areas of the campus. The intent is for the "Owning Our Future: Fall 2020"
portion of the website to serve as a hub of operational and academic information throughout the
semester.
Constituent-Specific E-Letters
•

•

•

•

Students: The existing Student Connections e-letter, distributed weekly, will offer
updates and information as the restart commences and throughout the semester. In
most instances, Student Connections will seek to drive users to the College website for
more detailed information.
Employees: The existing faculty/staff e-letter, The Current, runs twice weekly on
campus traditionally, For fall 2020, each edition will feature an "Owning Our Future:
Fall 2020" section with pertinent news and updates. Like the student e-letter, The
Current will seek to drive users to the College website for more detailed information.
Town/Gown : The Office of the President leads the College's government relations
efforts and maintains regular contact with elected officials at the local, state and federal
levels of government. A focused e-letter for governmental officials is being developed.
Alumni/Parents/Friends: The Office of Institutional Advancement will use its "Old
Westbury Update" quarterly e-letter to inform these constituencies of ongoing
developments of the campus and key information in response to COVID-19.
23

Social Media
Social media will be used to support and extend the reach of Leadership Messaging by posting
summaries and vignettes from key messages with the intent of driving traffic to the message
itself. The college posts appear on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.
Posts on social media will also be used to provide reminders of key deadlines and other
actionable content.
Town/Gown Relations
College leaders have presented the framework of its restart plan to the representatives who
comprise the Long Island Regional "Control Room." The same framework was shared with the
institution's College Council. As no meeting of the council is scheduled for summer 2020, the
council members will receive updates via email with a more formal report at the group's first
meeting of fall 2020.

6.2 Communicating in the Event of Infection
Should a member of the campus community test positive for COVID-19, the following actions
will occur:
•
•
•

The Student Health Center will report the case immediately to the Nassau County
Department of Health for contact tracing.
The Office of Public & Media Relations will coordinate a Leadership Message to be sent
to all students, faculty and staff.
The Office of Public & Media Relations will post the announcement to the "Owning Our
Future: Fall 2020" website.

Requirements of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act and the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act will be adhered to in all such announcements.

6.3 Ongoing Education
Video Training
All employees have been required to view the SUNY-developed video regarding COVID-19,
safety and hygiene recommendations, etc. Approximately 50% of current employees have
completed the viewing, as noted in tracking by the Office of Human Resources. Follow up
campaigns to capture all other employees will take place throughout the summer.
Signage and Printed Collaterals
Temporary signage related to social distancing and mask requirements have been posted in all
high traffic areas of the campus.
More formal signage is being created by the Maintenance and Facilities Department in
collaboration with the Office of Public and Media Relations related to:

24

•
•
•
•
•

Mask wearing
• Social distancing
Hand hygiene
• Hand sanitizer use and precautions
Respiratory hygiene
Revised Capacities/Social Distancing Instructions for public areas and meeting rooms
Cleaning and Facility Use Expectations

6.4 Emergency Shutdown Communications
Leadership Messaging via campus email will be used to report on changes that would be
required if public health requirements grow more stringent. These messages would be
supported with text messages and social media posts.
The college posts appear on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook.

25

VII. Financial Implications
SUNY Old Westbury is faced with a financially challenging 2020-21 academic year.
The New York state budget could have a shortfall of up to 25%, which will affect all SUNY
campuses. A commensurate reduction in state aid would equate to more than $2.2 million for
our campus. The state budget also did not include an offset payment as it had in the previous
year to pay for $1.4 million in collectively bargained costs which will be paid this year out of the
college budget unless relief is provided by the state.
Additionally, we expect to lose approximately $525,000 in the coming year from cancelled
events due to unavailability of campus facilities because of the presence of the Alternate Care
Facility. An additional $200,000 in rental revenue will not be available due to the recent exit of
Empire State College from the Trainor House on campus.
We are also uncertain of whether the College will meet its enrollment targets and we must plan
for the absence of roughly $5 million in fees related to room and board for the fall semester with
no student housing being offered. Also, we will experience a loss of approximately $1.25 million
in revenue from NYIT from the absence of their residential students from campus. With no
students on campus this fall, we will also forego more than $1.4 million in fee revenue since
there will be significantly reduced or no transportation services, athletic events or on campus
student activities for students. In addition to the above revenue losses, Old Westbury may incur
costs ranging from $975,500 to $1,665,500 in implementing our Re-Starting Plan. Such costs
include purchases of PPE, cleaning materials, technology software and equipment, training for
remote instruction and facility enhancements.
We will receive approximately $5.5 million from the CARES Act (of which half is to be directed
solely to students) to offset costs associated with impacts from COVID-19. In addition, we expect
to receive $419,000 in CARES Act funding for our role as a minority service institution. There is
the hope that more aid may come as the federal government considers other forms of support to
state governments.
The outcome of these circumstances is that SUNY Old Westbury has a very difficult year ahead.
As a result, the College has developed a SUNY-approved Spending Constraint Plan containing
several measures to help mitigate the financial impact the pandemic is having on our campus.
This plan includes:
•

•
•
•
•

Implementing a hiring freeze and developing a hiring plan that reviews open positions in
concert with the next twelve months of planned hires and replacements. Open positions,
planned hires, and replacements should be prioritized based on health and safety,
essential instruction and research, critical student facing needs and revenue generation;
Restricting the use of overtime to health, safety and emergency matters;
Reviewing faculty workloads and eliminate or defer non-essential extra service and
course releases;
Reducing energy consumption and costs by closely monitoring usage and costs and
employing energy-efficient energy measures recommended by prior audits;
Restricting travel to trips that are critical to the College’s mission, academic standing and
accreditation purposes;
26

•
•
•
•

Using technology for online training, seminars and meetings;
Instituting emergency purchasing procedures (see OTPS restrictions below) for routine
purchases requiring review by both the Purchasing and Budget offices before approval;
Using University-wide contracts or regional contracts where available and continue our
managed print services program designed to reduce print and paper costs; and
Temporarily suspending campus cash funded capital projects unless directly related to
health and safety or revenue generating activities.

Savings from implementing any of the above actions are to be held centrally and utilized to fund
operational reserves and to redirect available resources to areas that may need funding. The
College’s Offices of Human Resources and Budget are jointly reviewing all requests to recruit,
appoint or change status of personnel to determine if they meet newly enacted New York State
Division of Budget's requirements.
In addition, the following restriction of OTPS will be instituted:
•

•

•

•

Each division will receive an initial 15% reduction in their OTPS budget for the
remainder of this fiscal year. Additional reductions may be required by DOB throughout
the year.
Purchases will be restricted to essential items (health and safety/mission critical). No
invoice will be paid without an approved Purchase Order. Essential purchases and single
purchases of $15,000 or more must have documented justification and approved by the
Divisional VP or administrative Department Head (includes academic Deans). Payment
will not be made on proposed purchases that fail to meet these requirements.
No P-Card, T-Card or NET Card purchases will be allowed without prior justification and
approval by the Divisional VP, Administrative Department Head or designee and the P, T
or NET Card Administrator.
Discretionary Spending – All discretionary spending, including the hiring of outside
consultants, must be critically reviewed and suspended immediately if not mission
critical. This includes memberships, food/meals, events, recognition banquets and other
expenditures that are not critical to the operation of the College. Essential expenditures
that directly support the College’s mission must be approved by the Divisional VP or
Administrative Department Head and the Chief Financial Officer.

While unfortunate, these austere measures are necessary for SUNY Old Westbury to continue to
provide quality educational services to our students for fall 2020 and beyond.

27

Appendix
Checklist – Adherence with State Guidance
1. Repopulation of Campus
Capacity to Maintain Social Distancing
•
•
•

90 percent of instruction via distance learning.
The college will offer no on-campus housing opportunities for fall 2020 for its own
students or for tenant institutions.
Large public gathering spaces closed or repurposed for instructional purposes with social
distancing parameters in place.

PPE
•
•

•
•
•

Masks required for all on campus in public spaces (hallway, elevators, classrooms, labs,
reception areas, etc.).
Disposable masks available to all employees and students who visit campus. Masks being
made available via the main unit office for each division, key forward-facing offices
(admissions, financial aid, bursar, registrar) and in school offices for academic units.
Employees and students welcome to use personal face coverings.
60,000 disposable masks on hand for distribution to students and faculty.
250 N95 masks on hand for use by healthcare workers, University Police, and others for
whom they are deemed necessary.

Screening /Testing
•
•
•
•

Daily online healthcare screening required for all employees and students who are
expected to report to campus. Screening to be completed before leaving home.
Screening of visitors to campus to be conducted manually through an emailed survey by
the office which made the invitation prior to the arrival of the guest on campus.
All results of screening surveys to be reported to Human Resources (for employees and
visitors) and Student Health Center (for students) daily for review and record-keeping.
Testing will not be conducted by the campus for any of its constituents.

Residential Living
•

The college will offer no on-campus housing opportunities for fall 2020 for its own
students or for tenant institutions.

Operational Activity
•
•

The college's course schedule is undergoing revision to accommodate the move to NET,
Remote and Facilities-Dependent courses.
No more than 10 percent of the College’s student body (approximately 500) is expected
to visit campus per week, with those visits staggered across the College’s five-day, eight
class period schedule.
28

•

Meetings for the campus will be conducted in virtual settings in almost every instance.
When face-to-face meetings are required, they will be conducted in spaces that allow for
six-foot spacing and masks are to be worn.

Restart operations
•
•

The College has remained open throughout the pandemic with cleaning taking place on a
reduced schedule.
All campus utilities are in place and operational.

Extracurricular Activities including intramurals and student performances
•
•
•

The campus will not host in-person events that are open to the public during the fall
2020 semester.
Co-curricular activities will be conducted in a virtual environment for the semester to
minimize physical interaction.
Intramurals and other recreational activities will not be conducted as no facilities are
available due to the presence of the Alternate Care Facility.

Vulnerable Populations
•

•

As always, students with pre-existing conditions and/or weakened autoimmune systems
are encouraged to contact the Student Health Center and the Office of Services for
Students with Disabilities (OSSD) so the necessary accommodations can be made to
ensure accessibility and inclusivity. The health and safety of our students is the College's
utmost priority.
Employees with weakened immune systems or pre-existing conditions will be
encouraged to work from home if that is practical or accommodations will be
investigated to enable them to work on campus safely.

Hygiene, cleaning and disinfection protocols
•

•
•
•

Priority cleaning (multiple times daily) will be in place for the following locations:
restrooms, building entryways and high traffic public areas, classrooms/labs, dining
areas.
Routine cleaning (at least once every 72 hours) will be enacted for all other spaces.
Employees will be encouraged to clean/disinfect their own spaces, with disinfectant
wipes provided by the college.
Hand and respiratory hygiene will be the focus on postings and
communication/education messages throughout the semester.

2. Monitoring
Testing responsibility
•
•

The College will not test its community.
Students and employees who report or exhibit symptoms will be advised to seek testing
that is widely available in their communities at private and public healthcare and
laboratory providers.
29

Testing Frequency and Protocols
•

Testing will only be requested when symptoms are present or reported or the party
involved has reported recent proximity to a person who has tested positive for COVID19.

Early Warning Signs
•

The Student Health Center staff and the Office of Human Resources will continuously
monitor students’ and staffs’ daily COVID-19 screening responses to detect changes in
the health status of the college community. The New York State Department of Health
Regional Metrics Dashboard and local alerts from the Nassau County Department of
Health will be used to track the prevalence of COVID-19 in the community and inform
the College's future decision making.

Tracing
•
•

College has relationship with Nassau County Department of Health which has stated it
will conduct contact tracing for cases related to SUNY Old Westbury.
Student Health Center has 5 staff members trained for this purpose if needed

Screening
•
•
•

Daily online healthcare screening required for all employees and students who are
expected to report to campus. Screening to be completed before leaving home.
Screening of visitors to campus to be conducted manually through an emailed survey by
the office which made the invitation prior to the arrival of the guest on campus.
All results of screening surveys to be reported to Human Resources (for employees and
visitors) and Student Health Center (for students) daily for review and record-keeping.

3. Containment
Isolation
•

With no housing being offered in fall 2020, students will be expected to isolate
themselves at home upon a positive diagnosis for COVID-19.

Quarantine
•
•

No quarantine spaces are required on campus as no residential students will be in place
for fall 2020.
Student Health Center will maintain contact with those self-isolating/quarantining off
campus or at home to gauge progress and needs so that assistance can be arranged if
necessary.

Students confirmed or suspected to have COVID-19
•

With no housing being offered in fall 2020, any student suspected or confirmed of
having COVID-19 will already be living at home or independently.

30

Hygiene, cleaning and disinfection
•

•

When a case is reported, areas used by the person will be closed for a period of 24 hours
before cleaning and disinfecting is conducted. If 24 hours is not feasible, wait as long as
possible.
Outside doors and windows will be opened to increase air circulation in the area.

Communication
•
•
•

Student Health Center director is assigned liaison with county health department and
responsible for communicating when positive results are known.
Leadership Messages to the community will be sent via email, supported by text
messages, will be used to report new cases and to provide updates as necessary.
All Leadership Messages will be posted to the "Owning Our Future: Fall 2020" website.

4. Return to Remote Operations
Operational Activity
•

•

•

Virtually every course delivered this fall will already be either fully online or online with
limited face-to-face interactions for facility dependent courses, easing any transition that
might be required to fully remote learning.
Similarly, academic support services, campus life and student development activities will
be taking place virtually in most instances, with limited opportunities for face-to-face
gatherings by appointment. Those face-to-face gatherings will be moved seamlessly to
virtual environments if necessary.
With the College seeking to return employees to campus in a slow, phased and
methodical way in order to reduce density on campus, administrative units that will
already be conducting a majority of their functions remotely would be in a position to
continue to do so if public health restrictions must be enhanced.

Move-out
•

No student housing is planned for fall 2020 resulting in no requirements for "move-out"
experiences.

Communication
•
•

Leadership Messages sent via email, supported by text messages, will be used to report
new conditions and to provide updates as necessary.
All Leadership Messages will be posted to the "Owning Our Future: Fall 2020" website.

31