GUIDELINES FOR
RETURNING TO WORK
ON CAMPUS

Revised July 2, 2020

CONTENTS
 Guiding Principles ...................................... 2
 Return to the Workplace ............................... 3
▪ Process for Employees Returning to Campus…3
▪ Symptom Monitoring Requirements ................4
 Health & Safety Guidance… ........................................7
▪ Personal Safety Practices ....................... 7
▪ Mental and Emotional Wellbeing ....................10
 Workplace Guidance ................................... 11
▪ Common Areas and Office Workspaces ....... 11
▪ Using Restrooms .............................................. 12
▪ Using Elevators ................................................ 12
▪ Meetings .......................................................... 12
▪ Meals ............................................................12
▪ Public Transportation ............................ 13
 Control of Entry/Exit ............................................. 14

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

1

GUIDING PRINCIPLES
SUNY Old Westbury’s policies and protocols for responding to the COVID-19 pandemic are rooted
in safety for our faculty, staff, and students; safety for the community in which we reside; and
safety for our health care providers who are working on the front lines. For this plan to be effective
and keep our community safe, it is critical that everyone fully complies with the policies,
protocols, and guidelines outlined in this document.
Old Westbury’s plans are consistent with guidance from SUNY System Administration, New York
State Department of Health, and the Governor’s New York Forward Phased Reopening Plan. We
will continue to follow recommendations from the Federal government and the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
SUNY Old Westbury would also like to recognize and acknowledge those employees who have
done essential on-campus work throughout the NY On Pause order. They have kept our campus
safely running and worked hard to prepare for this phased arrival of additional employees. We
thank them for their dedication to our campus and the SUNY Old Westbury community.
As our knowledge and understanding of the novel coronavirus - COVID-19,
continues to evolve and Federal, State, and/or local guidance change,
our policies and plans will be updated.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

2

PROCESS FOR EMPLOYEES RETURNING TO CAMPUS
Phase 2 of the Governor’s New York Forward Phased Reopening Plan allows limited numbers of
additional employees to return to work on campus. SUNY Old Westbury will begin to phase in a
return of employees to campus over time in a coordinated process to ensure appropriate physical
distancing and maintain appropriate levels of density within departments on campus.
Area Vice Presidents or Department Heads will communicate with their employees regarding
when and how they will return to on-campus work. Employees should not come to work on
campus until they have been directed to do so.
As SUNY System Administration has extended the Remote Work Pilot until October 2, 2020,
employees who can continue to effectively work remotely will be allowed to do so until
restrictions on density are eased and/or the Remote Work Pilot is discontinued. Those who have
been reporting to work on campus will also continue to do so as we phase in additional oncampus essential staff.
The College will assess who should return to work on campus based on criteria such as the
employee’s need to access on-site resources and whether the employee’s normal work location
allows for appropriate physical distancing. Employees who have specific issues that may affect
their ability to return to work on-campus (child/elder care, health status, etc.) should
communicate them with their Area Vice President or Department Head so that they can be taken
into consideration. Note that employees asked to report to work on campus may need to come
only on specific days and/or at specific times to reduce density within departments and reduce
the possibility of virus spread.
Once decisions to expand on-campus staffing in certain areas have been made, employees should
follow the policies and protocols detailed in this guide for returning to work on campus.
As on-campus staffing expands, the College will closely monitor and reassess our policies and
procedures to mitigate any potential spread of the virus. If localized outbreaks emerge, tighter
restrictions and reduced staffing may need to be implemented again.
As Long Island is approved to move into subsequent Phases in the Governor’s Reopening Plan,
levels of on-campus staffing, services permitted on campus, and government guidance may
change. This document will be regularly updated to reflect any such changes.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

3

SYMPTOM MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Employees who have been instructed by their Area Vice President or Department Head to return
to work on campus must self-monitor their health and symptoms every day before reporting to
work. Employees will visit www.oldwestbury.edu and log into connect.oldwestbury.edu using
their Old Westbury username and password. The link for OW Connect can be found in the upper
right hand corner of the website when using a computer; if using a mobile device the link can be
found toward the bottom of the website and will say ConnectOW Portal. Once logged in, the
employee will click on the COVID-19 Screening Form icon that appears as a circle with the words
“COVID-19” at the end of the toolbar. The Daily COVID-19 Screening Form will display and must
be completed daily prior to reporting to work on campus. The form will ask four health-related
questions:
1. Do you have a temperature of 100.0oF or higher?
2. Have you had any known close contact with a person confirmed or suspected
to have COVID-19 in the past 14 days?
3. Do you currently have any of the following symptoms?
 Cough (new or worsening)
 Shortness of breath (new or worsening)
 Trouble breathing (new or worsening)
 Chills
 Muscle pains (new or worsening)
 Headache (new or worsening)
 Sore throat (new or worsening)
 New loss of taste or smell
4. Have you tested positive for COVID-19 through a diagnostic test in the past 14
days?
** Once the form is submitted, the employee must go to their Old Westbury email account to check
for further instructions based upon the responses they provided.**
If your response to any of the above questions is “yes,” an email will automatically be sent to
your Old Westbury email address and Human Resources. The email will state that you should not
report to work, you should inform your supervisor, and call your primary health care provider or
the NYS COVID-19 Hotline: 1-888-364-3065 for instructions.
If all your responses are “no,” an email will be sent to your Old Westbury email address stating
that you are cleared for campus access. Please be prepared to demonstrate that you have
completed the form for campus access daily. Your “no” responses will be sent to a database for
campus records.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

4

Employees may not report to work on campus if they are feeling ill. The most commonly
reported symptoms of COVID-19 include the following:
 Cough
 Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
 Fever
 Chills
 Repeated shaking with or without chills
 New runny nose or sinus congestion
 Muscle pain
 Persistent headache
 Sore throat
 Unexpected severe fatigue
 New gastrointestinal symptoms
 New loss of taste or smell
Because many of these symptoms may occur briefly or as a result of other non-COVID-19 related
illness, including common allergies, employees should monitor them for any occurrences that are
unusual for them. Upon the onset of any of these symptoms, employees should call their primary
health care provider or the following COVID-19 hotline and follow their instructions:
 The New York State COVID-19 Hotline: 1-888-364-3065
Employees should follow the instructions of their primary health care provider if instructed to
self-quarantine or self-isolate as a result of COVID-19 symptoms, a positive COVID-19 test, or
contact with someone who has COVID-19 symptoms or a positive COVID-19 test. They should also
notify their SUNY Old Westbury Supervisor and the Human Resources Office
(hr@oldwestbury.edu or (516) 876-3179). Specifically:
 If an employee has COVID-19 symptoms and either tests positive for COVID-19 or did not
receive a test, the individual may only return to work after completing at least 14 days of
self-quarantine and after symptoms have subsided.
 If an employee does not have COVID-19 symptoms but tests positive for COVID-19, the
individual may only return to work after completing at least 14 days of self-quarantine.
 If an employee has had close contact with a person with COVID-19 and is experiencing
potential symptoms of COVID-19, even if symptoms are deemed not related to COVID-19,
the employee must still complete a 14-day quarantine after the contact.
 If an employee has had close contact with a person with COVID-19, even if they are not
experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, the individual must complete a 14-day selfquarantine.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

5

According to the CDC, individuals with certain conditions may have a higher risk for COVID-19
infection. Those conditions may include:
 Older adults (aged 65 years and older)
 Undiagnosed or untreated HIV
 Asthma (moderate to severe)
 Chronic lung disease
 Diabetes
 Serious heart conditions
 Chronic kidney disease being treated with dialysis
 Severe obesity
 Being immunocompromised (e.g. someone currently taking prednisone or being treated
for cancer)
Employees who have been instructed to return to work on campus and have concerns about
doing so due to one of the high-risk conditions above, those who are pregnant, or those who
wish to seek ADA Reasonable Accommodations related to Returning to the Workplace should
contact the Human Resources Department via email at hr@oldwestbury.edu or by phone at (516)
876-3179.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

6

PERSONAL SAFETY PRACTICES
Physical Distancing
Maintaining physical distance is one of the best tools to avoid being exposed to COVID-19 and
slowing its spread. Since people can spread the virus before they know they are sick, it is
important to stay away from others when possible, even with no noticeable symptoms. Physical
distancing is important for everyone, especially to help protect people who are at higher risk of
getting very sick. Employees working on campus should follow these physical distancing
practices:
 Stay at least six (6) feet from other people at all times. (Two arms’ lengths is a good rule
of thumb to approximate this distance.)
 Do not gather in groups.
 Stay out of crowded places and avoid mass gatherings.

6 feet

Face Masks/Cloth Face Coverings
Appropriate use of cloth face coverings/disposable masks (masks) is critical in minimizing risks to
others. COVID-19 can be spread to others even by people who do not have any symptoms. Use
of a mask or cloth face covering is not a substitute for physical distancing.
In general, masks should be worn in common areas and when in the presence of others,
including but not limited to meeting rooms, classrooms, hallways, reception areas, etc. See
Workplace Guidance, p. 11, for more information.
It is best practice to always have a mask handy.
Masks will be provided by SUNY Old Westbury if needed, one (1) per employee. Employees may
also provide their own mask(s), which will help reduce the need for the College to purchase
additional face coverings (currently in short supply).

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

7

See details regarding mask use and care below.

TYPE AND INTENDED USE OF FACE COVERINGS / MASKS
TYPE

DESCRIPTION

INTENDED
USE

Cloth Face Covering

Disposable Mask

Home-made or
Commercially
commercially manufactured manufactured masks
face coverings that are
that help contain
washable and help contain wearer’s respiratory
wearer’s respiratory
emissions
emissions
Required for campus community use in nonhealthcare settings (office spaces, general work
settings, shops, community areas) where 6 feet
of physical distancing cannot be consistently
maintained.
 Not required for working alone in office
 Required for ingress/egress

Medical-Grade
Surgical Mask

N95 Respirator

FDA-Approved masks Provide effective
to protect the wearer respiratory protection
from large droplets
from airborne
and splashes; helps
particles and aerosols;
contain wearer’s
helps contain wearer’s
respiratory emissions respiratory emissions
These masks are reserved for healthcare
workers and other approved personnel
with task-specific hazards determined by
SUNY Old Westbury’s Office of
Environmental Health and Safety.

Use and Care of Face Coverings
Putting on the mask:
 Wash hands or use hand sanitizer prior to handling the face covering/disposable mask.
 Hold the face covering/disposable mask by the ear loops or ties and loop around each ear
or tie the straps behind the head and neck.
 Ensure the face covering/disposable mask fits over the nose and under the chin. If
equipped with nose wire, fit the mask snug against the nose.
 Throughout the process, avoid touching the front of the face covering/disposable mask.
Taking off the mask:
 Wash hands or use hand sanitizer prior to handling the face covering/disposable mask.
 Do not touch eyes, nose, or mouth when removing the face covering/disposable mask;
only touch the ear loops or ties.
 When taking off the face covering/disposable mask, loop a finger into the strap and pull
the strap away from the ear, or untie the straps.
 Wash hands or use hand sanitizer immediately after removing.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

8

Care, Storage, and Laundering:
 Store face coverings/disposable masks in a paper bag when not in use.
 Cloth face coverings may not be used for more than one (1) day at a time and must be
washed after use. Cloth face coverings should be properly laundered with regular clothing
detergent before first use, and after each shift. Cloth face coverings should be replaced
immediately if soiled, damaged (e.g., ripped or punctured) or visibly contaminated.
 Disposable masks must not be used for more than one (1) day and should be placed in
the trash after completion of the shift or if it is soiled or damaged (e.g., stretched ear
loops, torn or punctured material) or visibly contaminated.
Hand washing
Employees should wash their hands often with soap and water for at least twenty (20) seconds,
especially after being in a public place, or after blowing their nose, coughing, sneezing, or
touching their face. If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer provided by
the campus or one that contains at least 60% alcohol, covering all surfaces of the hands and
rubbing them together until they feel dry. Employees should avoid touching their face whenever
possible, and if they do, should wash their hands afterwards.
Note on use of disposable gloves: According to the CDC, gloves are not necessary for general use
and do not replace good hand hygiene. Washing hands often is considered the best practice for
common everyday tasks.
Disinfection of Workspaces & Commonly Used Surfaces
While Facilities will continue to clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces (e.g. door handles,
sink handles, drinking fountains, grab bars, hand railings, bathroom stalls, and dining hall tables)
based on CDC guidelines, all employees should take an active role in helping keep their
workplaces clean and sanitized. Employees should wipe down commonly used surfaces. Before
starting work and before leaving any room in which an employee has been working, they should
wipe down all work areas with EPA-registered disinfectant provided by the College. This includes
any shared-space location or equipment (e.g. copiers, printers, computers, A/V and other
electrical equipment, coffee makers, desks, tables, etc.).
Coughing/Sneezing Hygiene
When sneezing or coughing, employees should cover their mouth and nose with a tissue or use
the inside of their elbow. Used tissues should be thrown in the trash immediately, and the
employee should wash their hands. If soap and water are not readily available, hand sanitizer
that contains at least 60% alcohol is an acceptable substitute.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

9

MENTAL AND EMOTIONAL WELLBEING
The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is available to offer emotional support and resources
during this stressful period. Obtaining EAP services is as easy as making a phone call or sending an
email. A Coordinator will connect employees to the services they need, professionally and
confidentially. For further information, the SUNY Old Westbury EAP Coordinator is Adele
Gutierrez, at: (516) 628-5604, or EAP@oldwestbury.edu.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

10

COMMON AREAS AND OFFICE WORKSPACES
In general, masks should be worn at all times in common areas and while in the presence of
others. It is best practice to always have a mask handy.
Face covering/disposable masks should be worn in all common areas, including, but not limited
to:
 Reception/receiving areas (for those visiting or passing through those areas)
 Hallways
 Break rooms
 Conference/meeting rooms
 Any common areas (kitchens, restrooms, etc.)
Masks should be worn in shared offices where physical distancing cannot be consistently
maintained. Employees whose primary workstation is in a shared workspace should wear a mask
when physical distancing cannot be consistently maintained.
Masks should be worn when entering and exiting all offices. Any employee visiting or passing
through a shared workspace should wear a mask.
Masks are not required inside single occupied workspaces.
Employees whose primary workspace is outdoors need not wear a mask as long as social
distancing can be maintained but should always have one with them to put on if someone else
approaches.
Departments should assess open work environments and meeting rooms and work with Facilities
leadership on measures to ensure appropriate physical distancing between employees, other
coworkers, and students such as:
 Place visual cues such as floor decals, colored tape, or signs to indicate to customers
where they should stand while waiting in line.
 Place one-way directional signage in large open workspaces with multiple through-ways
to increase distance between employees moving through the space.
 Consider designating specific stairways for up or down traffic if building space allows.
Area Vice Presidents and Department Heads will ensure that each employee returning to work
on campus understands the policies and procedures in effect in their specific work environments.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

11

USING RESTROOMS
Use of restrooms with multiple stalls should be limited based on room size to ensure at least six
(6) feet of distance between individuals. Employees should wash their hands for at least twenty
(20) seconds after using restroom facilities to reduce the potential transmission of the virus.

USING ELEVATORS
No more than two (2) people may use an elevator at a time, so employees are encouraged to use
the stairs whenever possible. Masks should be worn while using the elevator, and care should be
taken to avoid touching the elevator buttons with exposed hand/fingers, if possible. (Using one’s
elbow is a good alternative to using one’s fingers.) Employees should wash their hands or use
hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol upon departing the elevator.

MEETINGS
Convening in groups increases the risk of viral transmission. Whenever feasible, meetings should
be held in whole or part using the extensive range of collaboration technology available (e.g.
Microsoft Teams, Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, Zoom, telephone, etc.).
In-person meetings are limited to the restrictions of local, state, and federal orders and should
not exceed fifty (50) percent of a room’s capacity, assuming individuals can still maintain six (6)
feet of separation for physical distancing requirements. Departments should remove or
rearrange chairs and tables or add visual cue marks in meeting rooms to support physical
distancing between attendees. Masks should be worn by everyone participating in an in-person
meeting.
Employees are encouraged whenever possible to communicate with colleagues and supervisors
as needed by Microsoft Teams, Zoom, email, instant message, telephone, or other available
technology rather than face-to-face.

MEALS
Before and after eating, employees should wash their hands thoroughly to reduce the potential
transmission of the virus.
If dining on campus, employees should wear a mask until they are ready to eat and then replace
it immediately afterward. (See guidelines on p. 8 for instructions on how to remove and replace
a face covering/disposable mask.) Eating establishments must meet requirements to allow at
least six (6) feet of distance between each customer, including lines and seating arrangements.
Individuals should not sit facing one another. Employees are encouraged to take food back to
their office area or eat outside (weather permitting), while continuing to maintain appropriate
physical distancing.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

12

If eating with others present, employees should maintain six (6) feet of distance between them
and should not sit facing one another. After eating or preparing food in common areas, wipe all
surfaces, including table, refrigerator handle, coffee machine, etc. using cleaner/wipes provided
in these spaces.

PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
Employees that must take public transportation should wear a mask before entering the bus
and avoid touching surfaces with their hands. Upon disembarking, employees should wash their
hands or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol as soon as possible and before removing
their mask.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

13

CONTROL OF ENTRY/EXIT
A SUNY Old Westbury ID card or key is required for entry as appropriate. Employees should not
hold or prop open exterior doors for any other person. Face coverings/disposable masks must be
worn while entering and exiting SUNY Old Westbury facilities.
Departments should identify usable building access points and coordinate employee arrival and
departure times to reduce congestion during typical “rush hours” of the business day. Department
Heads should schedule employee arrivals and departures in increments to reduce personal
interactions at building access points, hallways, stairs/elevators, etc.
Once employees have been instructed to return to work on campus, they should report to work
or depart work through the designated building access and at the designated time to limit the
number of people entering and exiting buildings at any one time.
Visitors, trainees, and guests are not allowed on campus during this time.

GUIDELINES FOR RETURNING TO WORK ON CAMPUS

14