MEMORANDUM
TO:
FROM:
SUBJ:
DATE:

Frank Sanacory, Chair, CAP Committee
Edward Bever, Director, School of Professional Studies
Proposal for Badge in Non-Profit Management
March 2, 2018

I am submitting for consideration by the CAP Committee a proposal for a Badge in Non-Profit
Management to be offered by the School of Professional Studies. Students will earn the badge
by taking the two existing required Professional Studies courses in the Congregational
Leadership Minor with a grade of B or better. The goal is to give students who want to gain the
competencies and skills in non-profit management imparted by theses courses but are not
interested in applying them in the area of congregational leadership a credential to work toward
and point to when seeking employment.
Since the College does not at present offer any Badges, this proposal is being submitted to
serve as a pilot program for the introduction these Micro-Credentials. The first section here will
therefore discuss the nature of these credentials and the reasons why they are being adopted in
higher education in general, while the subsequent sections will discuss the purpose, demand,
and resource implications and lay out the structure of the Non-Profit Management badge in
particular.
I. Micro-Credentials and Badges
Micro-Credentials are awards given to students for the achievement of specific sets of skills or
competencies. The skills and competencies can be achieved through credit or non-credit work.
In the case of credit-bearing work, which is what is under consideration here, the skills and
competencies can be gained through work scattered across a variety of courses and measured
by performance on specific assignments, or contained in a defined set of courses, in which case
they are measured by their correspondence of the learning outcomes of the courses. In the
latter case, which is under consideration here, the number of courses is limited, typically 2-4, to
differentiate them from Minors and Certificates, which are generally 20 or more credits.
Badges are a specific form of micro-credential that derive their name from the fact that they are
typically represented by a clickable digital icon that can be embedded in an online resume or
LinkedIn profile, which when clicked lead to a page with information about the specific
competencies and skills the badge represents, the institution conferring the badge, and possibly
links to more detailed course information or even work produced in earning the badge.
However, the term “badge” has come to be used more generically for micro-credentials that are
not industry-specified certifications for workplace training or professional accreditation, and
when they represent achievements in credit-bearing courses, they can, and ultimately should,
be recognized on traditional transcripts maintained by college registrars.

The value of badges for credit-bearing work is fourfold. First, and most important, is their
pedagogical value: by recognizing student achievement beyond the scope of one course but
more immediately than the attainment of a four-year degree, they can provide an important
motivation, an attainable goal, for students to persist at their studies, and a sense of
accomplishment that can fuel further effort toward the degree. Second, they can highlight
specific skills and competencies to potential employers, not only upon completion of the degree,
but also to help students get internships and better jobs while still studying. Third, badges are
flexible for the College: the SUNY system has specifically adopted the position that they are
similar to minors in that they are entirely campus based, and do not need to get approvals from
SUNY or SED.1
However, and this is the fourth value of badges, in contrast minors, which are only awarded
upon completion of the bachelor’s degree, badges are stand-alone credentials that are awarded
upon completion of their requirements, which not only makes them helpful for students seeking
internships and better jobs while continuing their studies, but also makes them attractive to nonmatriculated students, which does not just open a potential new source of students for the
College, but also creates a new relationship between it and the community more tailored to the
21st century, with its declining pool of 18-22 year olds and rising need for continuous, or at least
periodic, upgrading of skills and retraining of adults. At the same time, the fifth and final value of
badges is that they are stackable, which means that earning one can lead the student to enroll
in a larger credential, in particular, a non-matriculated student earning a badge might go on to
earn a certificate, or matriculate and pursue a bachelors degree.
Because of these values, the SUNY system is supportive of the introduction of microcredentials. The SUNY Provost created a Task Force comprised of faculty and administrators
that spent several years working on a report defining them, outlining their relationship to existing
credentials and governance structures, and providing resources for campuses as they explore
their potential fit with their individual missions and traditions. The Task Force issued a draft
report in September, 2017; SUNY solicited feedback on it from campuses, and held a workshop
about it in Saratoga Springs in November, and issued its final report in January 2018. The
report recommends that “the System Provost should encourage and support campus
development of micro-credentials,” and, indeed, in a memo accompanying the final report, the
Provost noted:

During	  the	  January	  2018	  SUNY	  Board	  of	  Trustees	  meeting,	  the	  SUNY	  Trustees	  
unanimously	  voted	  to	  endorse	  the	  definitions	  and	  taxonomy	  of	  terms,	  guiding	  
principles,	  and	  recommendations	  of	  the	  Task	  Force.	  We	  talked	  about	  how	  micro-­‐
credentials	  align	  with	  a	  key	  priority	  identified	  by	  Chancellor	  Johnson—individualized	  
learning.	  	  It	  is	  clear	  that	  the	  wide	  array	  of	  possibilities	  available	  through	  micro-­‐
credentials	  can	  afford	  students	  with	  an	  opportunity	  to	  differentiate	  their	  learning	  
experience.	  	  

1

SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force Report and Recommendations, January 2018, pp. 7, 19.

	  
II. The Badge in Non-Profit Management
A. Purpose
The Badge in Non-Profit Management is designed for students holding or aspiring to leadership
positions in non-profit organizations. Its courses cultivate the basic skills and competences
needed to manage the administrative, financial, and governance aspects of non-profits. The
Badge will be available to currently enrolled students as well as members of the larger Long
Island community with a desire to gain certified enhancement their skills in these area.
B. Demand
The New York/Long Island region is home to thousands of non-profit organizations that provide
a wide variety of invaluable services to the community. In the five eastern-most towns of Suffolk
County alone there are “over 1,075 registered nonprofit organizations that provide basic needs,
leadership on sustainability and environmental issues, preservation and presentation of arts and
culture, and educational support.”2 To provide these services, the non-profits employ over
100,000 people and pay over $5,000,000 in wages and salaries.3 To maintain their staffing,
non-profits on Long Island collectively recruit hundreds of new employees at any one time:
currently one online jobs site lists 4,778 jobs in non-profits within 25 miles of Old Westbury
(including New York City) and 450 within 15 miles of campus.4 A second site concurs, with 454
jobs listed within 15 miles of Old Westbury, and 356 of them are full-time.5 Considering Old
Westbury’s venerable commitment to promoting social justice, it seems natural that the College
would support students’ ability to translate good intentions into effective action.
C. Resources
Courses offered by the School of Professional Studies for the badge are already being offered
as part of the Congregational Leadership minor, which populates them enough to sustain them
but not to fill them. These classes are scheduled on the weekends, when the physical facilities
of the College are under-utilized, and they are taught by adjunct faculty, so instructional costs
are modest and easily met on a class-by-class basis. These courses also serve as major
electives in the BPS in Professional Studies program.
III. Additional Materials
Following is catalog copy for the badge, modeled on the catalog copy for minors, and the syllabi
for the two courses in the badge. The CV of the adjunct faculty member who teaches them and
who was consulted on the articulation of the minor’s skills and competencies and the learning
outcomes of the courses accompanies this as a separate PDF.
2

http://www.aftee.org/not-for-profits/. Accessed 3/2/18.
Long Island’s Not-For-Profit Sector: Doing More with Less During a Period of Economic Change”, The
Long Island Association, Inc., June, 2011, p. 6. Available at
http://www.licf.org/Portals/0/Uploads/Documents/latest_non_profit_study_lo_res.pdf. Accessed 3/2/18.
Note that these
4
https://www.indeed.com/q-Non-Profit-l-Long-Island,-NY-jobs.html. Accessed 3/2/18.
5
https://www.simplyhired.com/search?q=non-profit&l=long+island%2C+ny&job=YwNI00OgV-iaDLTSTyTwV8cdsR_AUEI8FtFPkVRtapYZPQpA6P0xA. Accessed 3/2/18.
3

Non-Profit Management Badge
Sponsoring school: Professional Studies
The Badge in Non-Profit Management is designed for students holding or aspiring to
leadership positions in non-profit organizations. It consists of two courses, one on the
managerial and the other on financial issues that leaders of nonprofit organizations
face. Students successfully completing the requirements of the badge will be prepared
to help manage a nonprofit organization’s operations, finances, and planning.

Requirements
Students are required to take 8 credits by completing both of the following courses with
a grade of B or higher:
PS3625
PS4630

Nonprofit Stewardship
Financial Administration of Nonprofits

4 credits
4 credits

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students who complete these courses at the stipulated level will:
•

Understand the role and structure of the nonprofit sector in contemporary society.

•

Know the management issues that arise within nonprofit organizations and how to
use this knowledge to successfully lead one.

•

Understand public governance and how to participate in and contribute to public
policy-making as a leader of a nonprofit organization.

•

Have a knowledge of basic accounting principles, financial statements, financial
planning processes, and audit and reporting requirements as they pertain to
nonprofit organizations.

•

Demonstrate an ability to use that knowledge to perform basic analyses of
nonprofits’ finances and use them in operations and planning.

•

Be able to communicate this knowledge and the results of these analyses to
organizational leadership, board members, and community stakeholders.

SUNY COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
SCHOOL OF PROFESSIONAL STUDIES
COURSE: PS3625 Nonprofit Stewardship 4 cr. This course surveys concepts of
leadership, leadership styles, techniques of motivation, and communications skills. It
examines how to build relationships, find supporters, enhance income, and raise funds,
and considers the administrative, legal, and ethical issues related to ensuring the
sustainability of the organization and budget. Prerequisite: EMS
LOCATION: H220
MEETING TIMES AND DAYS: Alternate Saturdays from 1:00 pm to 4:10 pm starting
September 9, 2017 and ending December 16, 2017. The course will be conducted in a
hybrid format, with online work equivalent to a class meeting in the two weeks between
classroom meetings.
SEMESTER: Fall 2017
INSTRUCTOR: Mr. Nigel Codrington
E-MAIL: codringtonlw@yahoo.com
OFFICE HOURS: Alternate Saturdays, 4:30pm – 5:30pm, BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
TEXT: Managing Nonprofit Organizations
Mary Tschirhart, Wolfgang Bielefeld
ISBN: 978-1-118-23388-7
512 pages
July 2012, Jossey-Bass
Hardcover $86.50
E-book $69.99

COURSE LEARNING OBJECTIVES
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
• Demonstrate an understanding of the size, structure and importance of the nonprofit
sector.
• Demonstrate a general knowledge of scholarly theories that explain the existence of
the nonprofit sector.
• Demonstrate an understanding of the leadership and management issues that arise
within nonprofit organizations.
• Demonstrate an understanding of how to lead and manage in public governance.

• Demonstrate an understanding of the public policy-making process and how leaders of
nonprofits participate in and contribute to it.
• Analyze case situations and suggest plausible solutions
• Demonstrate an ability to synthesize wide-ranging, current information
• Make cogent, coherent and well structured written and oral presentations
• Analyze, synthesize, think critically, solve problems, and make decisions
USE OF TECHNOLOGY
Each class session will include a power point presentation of the contents of the relevant
textbook chapter. The outline for each presentation will be made available to each student
on the Blackboard site.
GRADING POLICY
The final grade will be based on completion of the following assignments. With the
exception of written exams, ALL assignments are to be submitted through Blackboard.
Assessment Descriptions
Reading Reflections: There are SIX assigned reading reflections which will be posted in
the “Discussions” section of Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of approximately two paragraphs in
length, and (2) a peer-response to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer feedback. There are 6 nonclass-meeting weeks between the meetings, so these discussions will be conducted in
each of the “off” weeks.
Case Study/Class Presentation: In addition to the Reading Reflections done online, all
students will make a live class presentation. Each week, one of you will choose an article
from a publication (digital or print) that is directly related to the chapter(s) from the text
that will be discussed in class on that day. A list of digital and print publications related
to nonprofits are listed below. The case study will require students to read and analyze a
scenario pertaining to a nonprofit organization. Students will prepare a presentation using
print and electronic media under the following headings:
Nonprofit taxonomy (area of need served by the organization)
The mission of the organization
Type(s) of services provided to the community
Identification of an area in the organization facing one or more challenges or in
which an interesting issue has developed Consider issues facing administration,

management, governance, communications, human resources, volunteers, technology
and/or finance.
Description of the challenge/issue
Situational analysis/background o State any relevant information that explains how
and/or why the challenge/issue developed.
Suggested solutions to the challenge(s) or evaluation of the issue
I recommend the following sources:
Chronicle of Philanthropy:
http://philanthropy.com/
This weekly news journal of the nonprofit sector includes a summary of news, plus full-text of
major feature stories.
Foundation News & Commentary:
http://www.foundationnews.org/
The bimonthly magazine of the Council on Foundations.
International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Marketing
http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/110481870/home?CRETRY=1&SRETRY=0
International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Marketing provides an international forum
for peer-reviewed papers and case studies on the latest techniques, thinking and best practice in
marketing for the not-for-profit sector.
Nonprofit Management and Leadership
http://www.josseybass.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-NML.html
This refereed journal included articles written for both scholars and practitioners. The focus is on
nonprofit governance, human resources, fundraising and financial management, and
organizational effectiveness. It includes a calendar of conferences and meetings.
Nonprofit Times
http://www.nptimes.com/
This periodical includes the handy and enlightening Salary Survey--Nonprofit Executives:
published in January, as well as the NPT Sector Report/Year-end Review.
Nonprofit World
http://www.snpo.org/publications/nonprofitworld.php
NW Focuses on organizational management and leadership from the practitioner's viewpoint.
Published by the Society for Nonprofit Organizations.
Philanthropy News Digest
http://foundationcenter.org/pnd/
A weekly news summary on philanthropy.
Voluntas: International Journal of Voluntary and Non-Profit Organizations
http://www.istr.org/pubs/voluntas/
http://www.springer.com/social+sciences/social+sciences,+general/journal/11266
Another academic-leaning journal on nonprofits.
Idealist

http://www.idealist.org/
Great listings for nonprofit jobs and other handy info.

Final Paper: Nonprofit Strategic Plan (10 pages)
Select a nonprofit to assess for application of nonprofit theories and functions,
effectiveness, and leadership as well as management. Present assessment of the nonprofit
and critical issues facing the nonprofit in the next 2-3 years. Analyze and present the four
nonprofit functions operating in this nonprofit. Develop a strategic action plan to address
issues. Define theory of change, values, mission, vision, goals/strategies, measures of
success. Create implementation time table to achieve nonprofit excellence.
PRIOR TO THE SUBMISSION OF THE FINAL PAPER, STUDENTS SHALL:
- submit a proposed topic,
- submit a list of sources of information, if applicable,
- prepare an outline (based on the model given below, but fleshed out with summary information).
THESE SUBMISSIONS SHALL BE SUBMITTED ONLINE
A NONPROFIT MODEL OF EXCELLENCE STRATEGIC ACTION PLAN:
Mission
Vision
Theory of Change
Values
Goals – Strategies
Financial Plan
Measures of Success
Program Services
Planning, Management, People Systems and Standards
Governance – Organization (Staff and Volunteer) Development
Results Tracking and Action
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR FINAL PAPER FORMAT:
- line space: 2.0
- Minimum margin, 1”;
- 12 point font;
- Times New Roman
- No typos
- Your name on each page
- Number the pages
- Use endnotes, if needed and attach a separate page with the full references
GRADING CRITERIA FOR FINAL PAPER:

1. Overall writing – the writing is fluid, format well structured, proper grammar, and
overall illustrates command of college level vocabulary and understanding of concepts.
(25%)
2. Professional presentation – correct spelling, no typographical errors, and instructions
followed. (10%)
3. Analytical level – uses materials from class to develop and support a logical, clear and
consistent argument evidencing solid critical thinking. (25%)
4. Positions and recommendations – applies insights to a practical discussion of
management and/or policy making and reflects critical theories and policy considerations
in nonprofit sectors. (35%)
5. References – used and cited appropriately. (5%)
Midterm Exam: The Midterm Exam will cover all content up to October 31 and will
consist only of essay format questions.
Final Exam: The Final Exam will cover all content from October 31 through December
9 and will consist of only essay format questions.
Grades will not be curved or dropped. No extra credit assignments will be
permitted.
Grading Scheme:
A= 95-100, A- = 90-94, B+ = 86-89, B = 83-85, B- = 80-82, C+ = 77-79, C = 74-76,
C- = 70 -73, D+ = 68-69, D = 65-67, D- = 62-64
ACCOMMODATING DISABILITIES
If you have or suspect you may have a physical, psychological, medical or
learning disability that may impact your course work, please contact Stacey
DeFelice, Director, The Office of Services for Students with Disabilities
(OSSD), NAB room 2065, Phone: 516-628-5666, Fax (516) 876-3005, TTD:
(516) 876-3083,E-mail: defelices@oldwestbury.edu. The office will help you
determine if you qualify for accommodations and assist you with the process
of accessing them. All support services are free and all contacts with the
OSSD are strictly confidential. SUNY/Old Westbury is committed to assuring
that all students have equal access to all learning activities and to social
activities on campus.

COURSE POLICIES
a. Attendance
As a hybrid course, students are expected to regularly log onto Blackboard and
review course updates and announcements as well as participate in discussions. Class
attendance on alternate Saturdays is mandatory.

If you must miss class, it is your responsibility to contact your classmates for any notes or
assignments you may have missed. The instructor will not provide a private lecture if you
miss class.
You are allowed 1 unexplained absence for the semester. Please note that you will not be
penalized for religious , military service mandated absences or pregnancy- or childbirthrelated absences. Absences for these reasons will not be counted toward the allowed
number of absences. But you will be required to inform me through e-mail/written
documentation regarding absences related to military service, pregnancy, childbirth, or
religious observation. For all other absences/delays, I will exercise my judgment on
whether or not to accept a late submission and/or assign penalties for tardiness/missing
class.
Class will begin promptly. Please be in your seats when the class period begins. Please do
not walk in and out of the classroom during the class period as it is disrespectful to the
instructor and your classmates. If you must arrive late, please let the instructor know in
advance. A student who is habitually late and/or absent will receive a grade of "0" (zero)
on any assignment due that class period.
You will receive an Early Alert if you have either missed several classes or have not
completed most of your work in the first few weeks of classes.
More than 3 undocumented and unexplained absences will result in a grade of F for the
semester.
b. Late Work
Assignments turned in after the due date will incur a loss of 5% deduction for
each day they are turned in late. Assignments will not be accepted if they are more
than 3 days late.
c. Grades of “Incomplete”
Incomplete grades are given only in situations where unexpected emergencies
prevent a student from completing the course and in which the remaining work can
be completed the next semester. Your instructor is the final authority on whether you
qualify for an incomplete. Incomplete work must be finished by the end of the
subsequent semester or the “I” will automatically be recorded as an “F” on your
transcript.
d. Laptop/Mobile Device Use:
All cellular phones and mobile devices must be turned off or kept on silent during
the course. The use of laptops is permitted for taking notes, but students are still
expected to remain engaged in class discussion.

e. Civility:
During class time we will engage in wide-ranging discussions that may generate
some debate. While you are encouraged to be critical of opposing viewpoints,
students must be respectful of the opinions of others at all times.
f. Assignments:
Assignments are due at the beginning of class. Any assignment turned in after class has
begun will be penalized (up to and including a grade of zero).

g. Make-up Exams:
No make-up exams will be given unless the exam was missed because of a severe illness
or an emergency. Under such circumstances, contact the instructor prior to the start of the
exam to request a make-up exam. You will be required to provide written documentation
(that may be substantiated) to take a make-up exam. I will exercise my judgment on
whether or not to accept such documentation and/or assign penalties for tardiness/missing
an exam.
ACADEMIC HONESTY
All work, assignments and exams must be completed in accordance with the college's
academic honesty policy which can be found in the Student Handbook, the College
Catalogue, and the College website. Students are expected to read and familiarize
themselves with the policy. If you have any questions regarding the policy, please speak
with me in a timely manner.
PLAGARISM
Plagiarism is basically using someone else’s words without putting them in quote marks
and given the source in a reference, or using someone else’s ideas without indicating
the source in a reference. The penalty for the first offense will be failure on the
assignment; the penalty for the second offense will be failure in the course. All offenses
will reported to the Director of the School of Professional Studies. For more information
on plagiarism, consult the Policy on Plagiarism at :

https://www.oldwestbury.edu/schools/arts-sciences/academicintegrity

READING ASSIGNMENTS
The chapters(s) scheduled to be discussed in class on the dates shown in the course
outline/pacing calendar below, should be read before the date of that given class.

COURSE OUTLINE/PACING CALENDAR
DATE

TOPIC(S)

09/09/17
Chapter 1 Understanding Nonprofit Organizations
Chapter 2 Effective and Ethical Organizations

09/16/17

Overview of the Nonprofit Sector:
http://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/publication/33711/413
277-The-Nonprofit-Sector-in-Brief--.PDF
The Nonprofit Sector in Individual States:
https://www.independentsector.org/resource/state-profiles/
These reflections will be posted in the “Discussion” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your class mates. Each reflection is worth 5
point – 3 points for your response and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

09/23/17
Chapter 3 Founding Nonprofits and the Business Case
Chapter 4 Organizational Structure

09/30/17
What Do Nonprofits Stand For:
http://ccss.jhu.edu/wpcontent/uploads/downloads/2012/12/What-Do-NonprofitsStand-For_JHUCCSS_12.2012.pdf
Social Entrepreneurship:
http://compassionatelouisville.weebly.com/uploads/1/8/5/3/185
31412/a_tale_of_two_cultures-dees-1.2013.pdf
These reflections will be posted in the “Discussion” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your class mates. Each reflection is worth 5
point – 3 points for your response and 2 points for your peer
feedback.
10/07/17
Chapter 5 Formulation of Strategy
Chapter 6 Resource Acquisition
10/14/17

Lofty Missions, Down-to-Earth Plans
V. Kasturi Rangan
https://hbr.org/2004/03/lofty-missions-down-to-earth-plans
Strategic Planning:
https://newclasses.nyu.edu/access/content/group/ea5ac41a6c65-4721-a5878e7184573ee3/Reading%20Materials/Class%2010%3A%20Fu
ndraising%20and%20Philanthrophy/Blatstein%2C%20Ira.%20
Strategic%20Planning.pdf
These reflections will be posted in the “Discussion” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your class mates. Each reflection is worth 5
point – 3 points for your response and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

10/21/17
Chapter 7 Financial Stewardship and Management
Chapter 8 Marketing

10/28/17

The Cost of Fundraising:
https://www.philanthropy.com/article/NonprofitInquiry-Reignites/156209
The role of Branding in the Nonprofit World:
https://bc2.berkeley.edu/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/the-roleof-brand-in-the-nonprofit-sector.pdf
These reflections will be posted in the “Discussion” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your class mates. Each reflection is worth 5
point – 3 points for your response and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

11/04/17

1. Midterm Exam (Chapters 1-8)
2. Review of answers to Midterm Exam questions

11/11/17

The Role of Leadership in Sustainability:
http://tccgrp.com/pdfs/SustainabilityFormula.pdf
Nonprofits and Lobbying:
https://newclasses.nyu.edu/access/content/group/ea5ac41a6c65-4721-a5878e7184573ee3/Reading%20Materials/Class%203%3A%20Civi
c%20and%20Political%20Engagement/Salamon_Nonprofit%2
0AmericaA%20Force%20for%20Democracy_Communique13.pdf
These reflections will be posted in the “Discussion” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your class mates. Each reflection is worth 5
point – 3 points for your response and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

11/18/17
Chapter 9 Boards and Governance
Chapter 10 Executive Directors and Leadership
11/25/17

New Yorkers Volunteer:
http://www.newyorkersvolunteer.ny.gov/docfiles/New%20Yor
kers%20Volunteer%20Report%20final%20%20Stakeholders%20Survey.pdf
Nonprofit Self Assessment Tool:
https://newclasses.nyu.edu/access/content/group/ea5ac41a6c65-4721-a5878e7184573ee3/Reading%20Materials/Class%2014%3A%20Le
ading%20and%20Creating%20Non%20Profit%20Excellence/T
ACS_OrganizationSelfAssessmentTool.pdf
These reflections will be posted in the “Discussion” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your class mates. Each reflection is worth 5
point – 3 points for your response and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

12/02/17
Chapter 11 Strategic Human Resource Management
Chapter 12 Motivation and Performance
12/09/17

FINAL PAPER DUE
Chapter 13 Program Evaluation
Chapter 14 Public and Government Relations

12/16/17

FINAL EXAMINATION:
Chapters 9-14

SUNY COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
SCHOOL OF PROFESSIONAL STUDIES
COURSE: PS 4630 - Financial Admin of Non Profits. Starting with the principles of
bookkeeping, this course surveys the overall management of nonprofits' finances,
including budgeting, reporting, financial planning, and controlling fiscal resources. It
covers the analysis of financial statements, structuring and evaluating programs, audit
responsibility, and managerial financial controls in an evolving financial and regulatory
environment.
LOCATION: H215
MEETING TIMES AND DAYS: Alternate Saturdays from 1:00 pm - 4:10 pm starting
Jan 27, 2018 and ending May 12, 2018. The course will be conducted in a hybrid format,
with online work equivalent to a class meeting in the two weeks between classroom
meetings.
SEMESTER: Spring 2018
INSTRUCTOR: Mr. Nigel Codrington
E-MAIL: codringtonlw@yahoo.com
OFFICE HOURS: Alternate Saturdays, BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
TEXT:
Coe, Charles K. Nonprofit Financial Management: A Practical Guide. John Wiley and
Sons, 2011.
Please consider purchasing the e‐textbook version of this text or renting the text from a
reputable company online. Both are cost‐effective options (Amazon and Barnes & Noble
offerings ranged from $20‐35).

COURSE LEARNING OBJECTIVES
By the end of the course, students should be able to:
1. Describe the actual and potential roles of a nonprofit CFO.
2. Apply financial planning processes and techniques to nonprofit programs.
3. Understand basic accounting principles of nonprofit entities.
4. Describe the financial statements issued by nonprofit entities and the information
communicated by each.

5. Perform basic analyses of financial information provided by nonprofit entities,
including budgetary calculations, cost allocation techniques, capital planning, and
operational needs.
6. Diagnose an organization’s financial strengths and weaknesses.
7. Describe varied audit and reporting requirements.
8. Communicate basic financial information to organizational leadership, board members,
and community stakeholders
USE OF TECHNOLOGY
Each class session will include a power point presentation of the contents of the relevant
textbook chapter. The outline for each presentation will be made available to each student
on the Blackboard site.
GRADING POLICY
The final grade will be based on completion of the following assignments. With the
exception of written exams, ALL assignments are to be submitted through Blackboard.
Grading:
Reading Reflections
Midterm Exam
Final Exam
Final Individual Project
Class Presentations
Class participation

10%
30%
30%
15%
10%
5%

Assessment Descriptions
Reading Reflections 10% : There are SEVEN assigned reading reflections which will be
posted in the “Discussions” section of Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require
two components (1) a response to the reading assigned of approximately two paragraphs
in length, and (2) a peer-response to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer feedback. There are 7 nonclass-meeting weeks between the meetings, so these discussions will be conducted in
each of the “off” weeks.
Midterm Exam 30%: Four essay questions to answer three.
Final Exam 30%: Six essay questions to answer five
Final Individual Project 15%: Select a recent (within last ten years) nonprofit scandal.
Using online resources such as newspapers, explain the facts surrounding the scandal,
describe the nonprofit and its administration, explain how the scandal was uncovered, and

the result of the scandal. Describe any internal controls that were in place during the
scandal and how they did/did not contribute to the scandal. Use the last section of your
short paper to make recommendations to improve controls.The final individual project
will total approximately EIGHT (8) double‐spaced pages.
Class Presentations10%: Each week, one of you will choose an article from a
finance/business/economics publication (digital or print) that is directly related to the
chapter(s) from the text that will be studied on that day. A list of digital and print
publications will be posted on Blackboard. You should identify the questions/issues
raised in the article and then lead a class discussion on them. It will not be necessary for
you to answer those issues (although you can). The goal is for you to think about the
issues and explore them in class.
Class participation 5%: Credit will be given for active participation (e.g., making
thoughtful comments, asking probing questions and answering questions posed to the
class) throughout the semester – not only in the last few weeks. You must come to class
prepared.
Grades will not be curved or dropped. No extra credit assignments will be
permitted.
Grading Scheme:
A= 95-100, A- = 90-94, B+ = 86-89, B = 83-85, B- = 80-82, C+ = 77-79, C = 74-76,
C- = 70 -73, D+ = 68-69, D = 65-67, D- = 62-64
ACCOMMODATING DISABILITIES

If you have or suspect you may have a physical, psychological, medical or learning
disability that may impact your course work, please contact Stacey DeFelice, Director,
The Office of Services for Students with Disabilities (OSSD), NAB room 2065, Phone:
516-628-5666, Fax (516) 876-3005, TTD: (516) 876-3083,E-mail:
defelices@oldwestbury.edu. The office will help you determine if you qualify for
accommodations and assist you with the process of accessing them. All support services
are free and all contacts with the OSSD are strictly confidential. SUNY/Old Westbury is
committed to assuring that all students have equal access to all learning activities and to
social activities on campus.

COURSE POLICIES
a. Attendance

As a hybrid course, students are expected to regularly log onto Blackboard
and review course updates and announcements as well as participate in
discussions. Class attendance on alternate Saturdays is mandatory.
If you must miss class, it is your responsibility to contact your classmates for any
notes or assignments you may have missed. The instructor will not provide a
private lecture if you miss class.
You are allowed 1 unexplained absence for the semester. Please note that you will
not be penalized for religious , military service mandated absences or pregnancyor childbirth-related absences. Absences for these reasons will not be counted
toward the allowed number of absences. But you will be required to inform me
through e-mail/written documentation regarding absences related to military
service, pregnancy, childbirth, or religious observation. For all other
absences/delays, I will exercise my judgment on whether or not to accept a late
submission and/or assign penalties for tardiness/missing class.
Class will begin promptly. Please be in your seats when the class period begins.
Please do not walk in and out of the classroom during the class period as it is
disrespectful to the instructor and your classmates. If you must arrive late, please
let the instructor know in advance. A student who is habitually late and/or absent
will receive a grade of "0" (zero) on any assignment due that class period.
You will receive an Early Alert if you have either missed several classes or have
not completed most of your work in the first few weeks of classes.
More than 3 undocumented and unexplained absences will result in a grade of F
for the semester.
b. Late Work
Assignments turned in after the due date will incur a loss of 5% deduction
for each day they are turned in late. Assignments will not be accepted if they
are more than 3 days late.
c. Grades of “Incomplete”
Incomplete grades are given only in situations where unexpected
emergencies prevent a student from completing the course and in which the
remaining work can be completed the next semester. Your instructor is the
final authority on whether you qualify for an incomplete. Incomplete work
must be finished by the end of the subsequent semester or the “I” will
automatically be recorded as an “F” on your transcript.
d. Laptop/Mobile Device Use:

All cellular phones and mobile devices must be turned off or kept on silent
during the course. The use of laptops is permitted for taking notes, but
students are still expected to remain engaged in class discussion.
e. Civility:
During class time we will engage in wide-ranging discussions that may
generate some debate. While you are encouraged to be critical of opposing
viewpoints, students must be respectful of the opinions of others at all times.
f. Assignments:
Assignments are due at the beginning of class. Any assignment turned in after
class has begun will be penalized (up to and including a grade of zero).

g. Make-up Exams:
No make-up exams will be given unless the exam was missed because of a severe
illness or an emergency. Under such circumstances, contact the instructor prior to
the start of the exam to request a make-up exam. You will be required to provide
written documentation (that may be substantiated) to take a make-up exam. I will
exercise my judgment on whether or not to accept such documentation and/or
assign penalties for tardiness/missing an exam.
ACADEMIC HONESTY
All work, assignments and exams must be completed in accordance with the
college's academic honesty policy which can be found in the Student Handbook,
the College Catalogue, and the College website. Students are expected to read and
familiarize themselves with the policy. If you have any questions regarding the
policy, please speak with me in a timely manner.
PLAGARISM
Plagiarism is basically using someone else’s words without putting them in quote marks
and given the source in a reference, or using someone else’s ideas without indicating the
source in a reference. The penalty for the first offense will be failure on the assignment;
the penalty for the second offense will be failure in the course. All offenses will reported
to the Director of the School of Professional Studies. For more information on
plagiarism, consult the Policy on Plagiarism at :
https://www.oldwestbury.edu/schools/arts-sciences/academic-integrity

READING ASSIGNMENTS
The chapters(s) scheduled to be discussed in class on the dates shown in the course
outline/pacing calendar below, should be read before the date of that given class.

COURSE OUTLINE/PACING CALENDAR
DATE

TOPIC(S)

01/27/2018
Chapter 2 Account for Transactions.

02/03/2018
“An Executive Director’s Guide to Financial Leadership”
By Kate Barr and Jeanne Bell
This article will be posted in the “Discussions” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

02/10/2018
Chapter 3 Create the Internal Control System.
Chapter 4 Manage the Audit.
CLASS PRESENTATION: Bufinsky, Brittany V.

02/17/2018
“What Nonprofits Need to Know About Form 990” by
By Joanne Fritz
This article will be posted in the “Discussions” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

02/24/2018

Chapter 5 Evaluate Financial Condition.
Chapter 6 Prepare and Manage the Budget.
CLASS PRESENTATION: Folkes, Robert F.

03/03/2018
MIDTERM EXAMINATION:
This will be done online on Blackboard based on Chapters 2, 3,
4, 5 and 6
The Bridgespan Group: “How to Research a Nonprofit’s
Financial Strength‐ Deep‐Dive Approach “
This article will be posted in the “Discussions” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

03/10/2018
Chapter 7 Manage Cash Flow.
Chapter 8 Purchase Goods.
CLASS PRESENTATION: Hung, Henry
03/17/2018
“Hidden in Plain Sight: Understanding Nonprofit Capital
Structure” by Clara Miller
This article will be posted in the “Discussions” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

03/24/2018

1.
Chapter 9 Contract to Provide a Service.
Chapter 10: Manage Capital Assets and the Inventory.
CLASS PRESENTATION: Lindsay, Daniel

03/31/2018
National Endowment for the Arts: “Financial Management
Guide.”
This article will be posted in the “Discussions” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer
feedback.
04/07/2018
Chapter 11 Invest Funds.
Chapter 12 Manage Banking Relations.
CLASS PRESENTATION: Prunty, Deirdre M.

04/14/2018

The Securities and Exchange Commission: “Beginners’ Guide
to Asset Allocation, Diversification, and Rebalancing.”
This article will be posted in the “Discussions” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

04/21/2018
Chapter 13 Borrow Funds.
Chapter 14 Manage Risks.

04/28/2018

Barr, K. (2009). “Make good use of the treasurer and finance
committee.”
This article will be posted in the “Discussions” section of
Blackboard. Each reading reflection will require two
components (1) a response to the reading assigned of
approximately two paragraphs in length, and (2) a peerresponse to one of your classmates. Each reflection is worth 5
points- 3 points for your response, and 2 points for your peer
feedback.

05/05/2018

REVIEW: Chapters 7-14

05/12/2018

FINAL EXAMINATION:
This will be done online on Blackboard based on Chapters 7-14