Resolution for the IT Governance and Advisory Committee
WHEREAS, in May 2019, as a result of serious concerns raised by members of the faculty, the Faculty
Senate formed a task force to investigate the state of shared governance in IT-related
decision-making process at the College, and
WHEREAS, the resulting faculty task force found shared governance in the IT governance to be
insufficiently effective and recommended the College should replace the IT Governance
Committee (ITGC) with a more effective model that will facilitate a transparent and
collaborative decision-making process in IT policies, purchases, and resource allocations,
and
WHEREAS, in November 2019, the Faculty Senate accepted the recommendations and in collaboration
with the campus administration formed the IT Governance Joint Task Force (ITG JTF) to
design an improved model of IT Governance, and
WHEREAS, after careful deliberation and consultation with offices and units across the campus, the ITG
JTF proposed the establishment of IT Governance and Advisory Committee (ITGAC) as an
improved replacement for the ITGC, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Purview, Charge and Structure will facilitate a transparent and collaborative
decision-making process in IT policies, purchases, and resource allocations by requiring the
ITGAC:





To establish a transparent process of technology-related purchases
To facilitate regular and meaningful consultation with users of technologies
To identify the training needs to take full advantage of IT resources
To establish a democratic meeting process and a regular system of reporting to
campus constituencies

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate will support the establishment of the
ITGAC as a replacement of the ITGC and accept the proposed Purview, Charge, Structure
and related recommendations, and
BE IT FORTHER RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate will start discussions regarding creating a
standing committee whose focus is to advocate IT needs of faculty.

Submitted by IT Governance Joint Task Force, May 7, 2021
[IT Governance Joint Task Force]
Anthony Barbera (Academic Affairs), Laura Chipley (Faculty), Jacob Heller (Inst. Effectiveness; CoChair), Michael Kinane (Public and Media Relations), Evan Kobolakis (CIO), Laurette Morris (Faculty;
UF Senator), Werner Sbaschnik (Faculty), Ryoko Yamamoto (Faculty; Co-Chair)

Purview, Charge and Structure for an IT Governance and Advisory Committee (ITGAC),
to Replace the current IT Governance Committee
May 7, 2021
Proposed by
The IT Governance Joint Task Force
(Membership: Anthony Barbera , Laura Chipley, Jacob Heller, Michael Kinane, Evan Kobolakis,
Laurette Morris, Werner Sbaschnik, Ryoko Yamamoto)

Purview
The IT Governance and Advisory Committee (ITGAC) shall serve as the mechanism of mutual
consultation between Information Technology Services (ITS) and users of ITS [e.g., the Faculty,
students, and operational units like the Library, Student Affairs, etc.], for continuous
improvement of service in support of the Mission of the College. The ITGAC is not directly
engaged with the technical aspects of ITS operations, but serves to align ITS initiatives and
actions with campus users' needs.
Charge
In accordance with the IT Governance and Advisory Committee (ITGAC) Draft Purview, the
ITGAC charge encompasses the following:
1. To ensure that, for specific purchases,


The College’s technology-related purchases that exceed the College’s prevailing
cost threshold (https://www.oldwestbury.edu/policies/information-technologypurchasing) are prioritized based on service requirements as understood by the
College's functional users, in alignment with the goals of the College’s Mission
and current Strategic Planning documents, and



There is a transparent process for submitting and approving technology related
purchase requests (e.g., criteria considered for approval), and



The submission process is publicized and includes prior ITS technical review and
other recommended steps, as well as the criteria considered for approval, and

2. To ensure that user requirements related to the effectiveness of technology purchases,
their implementation, and maintenance are identified through regular and meaningful
consultation that solicits and receives information from ITS functional user constituencies
(e.g., regular surveys of user needs), and

ITGAC Proposed Purview, Charge and Structure for ITGAC - (ITG JTF May 7, 2021) Page 1 of 3

3. To ensure that systemic technical problems and maintenance needs are identified through
adequate, regular, and meaningful consultation that solicits and receives information from
ITS functional user constituencies (the ITGAC has neither authority nor responsibility for
managing or interfering in ITS internal decision-making or functions), and
4. To identify the training and staff development needed to take full advantage of IT
resources, and
5. To obtain regular updates from ITS regarding planned major initiatives or changes in a
timely manner, as well as responses to ITGAC recommendations, and
6. To conduct all meetings, processes, recommendations, and actions transparently and in
accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order (e.g., agendas, minutes), and
7. To make recommendations on its actions to the President, and make same available to the
campus community; members of the ITGAC shall also report ITGAC recommendations
to their constituencies, and
8. To issue regular (e.g., each semester) reports to the College describing its actions.

Structure and Operation:
Membership, Leadership, Meetings, and Reporting, and Process
1. Membership (14 voting, 1 non-voting):
 Academic Affairs (1) Provost (ex officio) or designee;
 Academic Heads of Schools (4), ex officio;
 Assoc VP for Business Affairs/Controller (1) (ex officio) or designee;
 Faculty (2) (selected by Faculty Governance);
 Instructional Design (1) non-voting;
 ITS (CIO) (1) (ex officio) ;
 Library Director (1) (ex officio) or designee;
 Media & Public Relations (1) VP Media & Public Relations (ex officio) or designee;
 President's Office (1) President (ex officio) or designee;
 SGA Representative (1) (selected by SGA Board);
 Student Affairs (1) VP Student Affairs (ex officio) or designee.
2. Leadership:
 The ITGAC’s Chair, Vice-Chair, Recording Secretary shall be elected out of the voting
membership by the voting members present at the election meeting
 The term of the ITGAC’s Chair, Vice-Chair, Recording Secretary shall be one year
3. Meetings: The ITGAC shall meet at least once each month.
4. Reporting:
 The ITGAC shall make recommendations resulting from meetings on an ongoing basis to
the appropriate offices/entities
 The ITGAC shall make a formal report at least once each semester to the College (e.g.,
President, Faculty Senate, to the “data hub”)

ITGAC Proposed Purview, Charge and Structure for ITGAC - (ITG JTF May 7, 2021) Page 2 of 3

5. Process: The proceedings of the ITGAC will follow Robert’s Rules of Order.

Related Recommendations
1. The College’s purchasing processes should be revised to require that technology
purchases include the ITGAC as a step in the existing process, as described above.
2. The faculty governance structure should be modified to create a standing committee
whose focus is to advocate IT needs of faculty.

ITGAC Proposed Purview, Charge and Structure for ITGAC - (ITG JTF May 7, 2021) Page 3 of 3