Suggestions related to holding a Zoom Meeting (some of this is good for any virtual
meeting)
1. Before you start, especially if you’re not used to conducting a virtual meeting,
admit there is going to be a learning curve and ask everyone to please be patient.
2. If you are using Zoom, encourage everyone to open the “participants” and
“chat” dialogues as these can be helpful during the course of the
meeting. Note: Hosts will have different options than participants. For
example, participants will have a “raise hand” button in the participants area
which can, no pun intended, come in handy – hosts will not see this option.
3. Unless someone is addressing the body, or participating in an active
conversation, ask everyone to please keep their microphone and video off –
video in particular can impact the software and if everyone has their camera on it
can slow things down.
4. If it becomes clear that you can’t address an agenda item as a result of the
meeting format, let folks know, and suggest that you come back to it in the future
when you have the ability to do so.
5. If you can, have an assistant manage the flow of the meeting. In Zoom, you want
to designate this person as a host to improve their ability support you. The
parliamentarian is a great option for this if they are willing and able to fill this
role.
6. If you do not already have established rules for how many questions and or time
each person called on can utilize, consider establishing them so you have an
understood practice to be followed.
7. If documents are going to be reviewed during the course of the meeting, unless
you need to have the actual document up, distribute the documents prior to the
meeting so everyone has them locally and can reference them if needed.
8. If you are going to review documents “live” in the meeting, have them open and
ready to go before you start the meeting so you can use the “share screen” option
to switch between items you want the participants to see. You can always open
documents as you go, but it’s easier if they are all ready to go.
9. During the meeting, if you use Zoom, participants will be able to “raise their
hand” to be included in the conversation. Hosts will see who put their hand up
in order and can call on them in sequence. Note: Participants will see hands go
up, but not the sequence.

10. The Chat section can be used for individuals to ask to be included in the
conversation as well. The order of requests will be clear, but if many “chats” are
sent, it will be necessary to scroll back up through the list to get the right
order. Using private chats, to a designated individual who is not hosting, can
help to solve this, but will required the designated individual to be able to
recognize speakers.
11. To second a motion, if you are a voting member of the Purchase College Senate,
please use the chat feature.

Some Voting Options that can be used (if you don’t have the “polling” option in
Zoom):
1. Use the “raise hand” feature under participants to have everyone vote as you go
along. This allows you to count who raises their hands as if you were inperson. Hosts can/should clear all raised hands once a vote is counted.
2. Use chat to register each persons vote. This option allows for a record of who
voted how by saving the chat dialogue at the end of the meeting. Chat votes can
either be done “publicly” where everyone sees all votes, or “privately” where
votes are “chatted” privately to the person designated to count them.
3. Add links to preconfigured surveys that can be pasted into the chat section for
folks to follow and cast their vote. If your campus has a history of using online
voting, this will allow you to use the same process.

Other tips:
1. Ask everyone attending the meeting to log in and/or set their user-name to their
actual/preferred name so you know who is included and can call on participants
by the right name. Participants that call in will not have this option.
2. If groups of individuals join the meeting through a common device it will be
harder to track individual participants. If quorum requires a specific cohort be
met, this may require more than just tracking who has logged in to the meeting
to establish quorum. This practice may also compromise the ability to conduct
representational voting.
3. While you can use Zoom from a phone, using your desktop is likely much more
functional.

4. Using headsets with a mic is helpful, though it may make the meeting look more
like a call center.
5. Proximity between individuals attending the meeting only matters if they are
physically next to each other and have their speakers and mics open which can
cause a feedback loop.
6. You can press and hold the space bar down to temporarily unmute your mic if
you want to say something. When you release the space bar our mic will be
muted again. Be advised that depending on your keyboard, this can be a bit
inconsistent.
7. If you haven’t previewed what you and your background will look like when
your camera is on, don’t be surprised if its not what you want folks to see.
8. If you are the host, it is possible to share your desktop if you choose to or
accidently make the wrong selection under “share screen” so:
a. Host from a non-personal computer that does not have any sensitive items
on the desktop and/or open.
b. Move any/all personal items off of your desktop so they can’t be seen.
c. Be mindful of how desktop items are named.
d. Be aware of your desktop background – it might make sense to you, but
not to others (especially if you are using a personal picture)
e. Pay attention to what you are doing and don’t share your desktop.
9. At the end of the meeting, end the meeting through the software and hang up
any open speaker phones that may be open for the meeting.

Prepared and shared by:
Daniel Hanessian
Campus Governance Leader
Faculty Presiding Officer
Chair, Purchase College Senate
Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Faculty Service
Purchase College, State University of New York