VIII. Treasurer’s report for 2002-2003 (Madeline Crocitto):
During the period of 13 months, income was $265 in donations, an overall net increase
bringing the total to $1336 plus interest income.
Everyone should realize that those receiving the fruit baskets, flowers, or other gifts have been
very appreciative. It is important to provide this recognition and concern for our colleagues
in time of personal duress. However, to do that we must be informed by someone in the
department of the name, home address and other relevant details.
IX.

Report on the South African Appeal by Becke Kalmans was postponed.

X. Student Life Committee report (Caroline Sawyer):

A forum on student life revealed the issue of sexual harassment and the procedures by campus
police, the administration, and generally how to deal with the problem.
Barbara Joseph, now on sabbatical, has worked on sexual harassment issues.

Mona Rankin is in charge of sexual harassment. There is a problem about getting information,
in part due to privacy laws.
What does the Senate think we should do?
Discussion:
A committee worked on this ten years ago and came up with policies and procedures for
reporting harassment and a list of places where students could turn for help.
The Affirmative Action Committee has some responsibilities.
The committee will get more complete information and assemble it for a written policy.
XI.

Old Business
Bill Kimmins reports that there is no asbestos danger, although the substance has been used in
several buildings. If we have any suspicion (open insulation around pipe or if a pipe is
cracked), report immediately and we will bring in outside specialists to decontaminate.
Snow removal — expression of gratitude for the way snow was handled after the last storm.
Jill Edelson reports that some of the wheelchair ramps still have ice and that some lights are out

near entrances.

XII.

New Business
Announcement by Nancy Sacks to get recommendations to her by Feb. 6" for First Year

Experience programs.

Meeting was adjourned at 2:00 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Eloise Linger, Secretary-Treasurer and Senator for PES