Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                          Friday, December 5, 2014

Senators Present: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding.), Fernando Guerrero
(Vice-Chair/ML), Robert Gero (Secretary/Treasurer/VA), Minna Barret
(University Senator), Kathie Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Costas
Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large),
Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Ana Martinez
(Professional), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Laura Anker (First Year
Experience), Curt Friehs (Library), Jeffrey D’Amico (Accounting), Shalei
Simms (MMF Dept.), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Diana Sukhram
(Exceptional Education), Laura Chipley (American Studies), Manya Mascareno
(Biological Studies), Michael Colaneri (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf
(English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Edislav Manetovic
(PEL), Laura Limonic (Sociology), Chris Hobson (ARPT Com.), Cary Lange (CAP
Committee), Alireza Ebrahimi (TLRC), Jacob Heller (FRR Committee).

Senators Absent: Caroline Sawyer (University Senator Alternate/Senator At-
Large), Vacant (At-Large Representative to EC.), Frank C. Ilozue (SGA),
Camilla Swasey (SGA), vacant (Student Gov’t. Assoc.), Jeanne Shimizu
(Adolescence Education), Fred Millan (Psychology), Shijian Li (Public
Health), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Ron Welton in substitution of
Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Julio Gonzalez (Dean, SOE).

Excused Senators: Dr. Calvin Butts III (President), Mona Rankin (Executive
VP), Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian).

Visitors Present: Albert Bacchus, Amanda Frisken (Gen Ed/AS Dept.),
Veronica Gerosimo (Director Commmuter Programs), Angel Lara (ML Dept.),
Jingyi Song (H&P Dept.), Dinorah Martinez (Recording)

   I. Call to Order: 12:33pm

  II. Approval of Minutes of November 14, 2014
      Minutes not available.

 III. Chair’s Report

    • The RABC meeting was cancelled as well as the Provost Council meeting.


    •  At our last Senate meeting we discussed the SUNY Excel Matrix and
      identified what we thought the major assessments that were pertinent
      to our campus. The Executive Committee forwarded these to the Chair of
      the SUNY wide Senate on November 21, 2015. The Executive Committee
      developed a document which addresses our concerns about SUNY Excels.
      The committee identified the challenges we felt were inherent is the
      assessment matrix. On November 25th there was a conference call with
      campus governance leaders and Provost Alex Cartwright. He started the
      discussion saying SUNY Excels is a continuous improvement process for
      all the campuses and it is going to be filled thru non existing money.
      He talked about the fact that best practices from one campus could
      fuel ideas for another. He believes that this plan is about commitment
      to excellence throughout the system, and that we need to embrace the
      concept of SUNY excels because we all can do a little better. If this
      is done right the accumulation effect could be huge.
    • A Steering Committee will be put together across all campuses. The
      chart initially had two hundred components. We need to lower that
      number.

  IV. President’s Report


    • President is excused to attend.


   V. Provost’s Report

    • Provost was not present and Ron Welton spoke on his behalf.
    • Dr. O’Sullivan wants to thank Jacob Heller and the members of the Task
      Force Schedule Committee for the work they did on reviewing the
      schedule format.  There will be a decision soon on a new schedule;
      probably next week. Also he wants to thank Dr. Amanda Frisken for her
      leadership on Gen. Ed. In general, he wanted to thank the Faculty for
      their input on the SUNY Excel Matrix and for the most part he concurs
      with the report and he appreciates the time and effort the Faculty
      took in providing such a comprehensive response to SUNY.
    • The Provost wanted to advise you to be prepared for a possible audit
      on sabbaticals and extra service. Audits have already occurred on a
      number of campuses. We need to be able to justify what we are doing in
      terms of course releases and sabbaticals. People should be thinking
      about what we are doing. Course releases are considered compensation
      and as such a number of hours worked must justify the course release.
      Considering that one of the requirements for promotion and tenure in
      this campus is college services; extra service must be involved beyond
      what constitutes college service in order for us to be able to justify
      it.
    • An announcement went out for the Chancellor’s Award for Student
      Excellence and the due date is on January 5th.  We had a nominee last
      year, but that nominee only came out of encouragement from the
      Chancellor’s Office indicating that we were the only college that did
      not submit a nominee for the Chancellor Awards for Student’s
      Excellence. Then after a lot of faculty input we identified a student
      that eventually was nominated and that student did win the award. We
      encourage our faculty to nominate at least one student for the award
      so the campus could be represented. To my recollection the student
      should be a graduating senior and be completed by either December or
      May.
    • I want to wish you a happy holiday whichever holiday you celebrate.





  VI. New Business

ARPT Annual Report (Chris Hobson)

    • The report shows the statistics of the full year. There were days
      where we were considering 4 files in one day.  We have a couple of
      changes of personnel in the committee during the course of the year
      and also great assistance from different Schools in filling those
      positions. You can see the breakdown of the cases in the bulleted
      items on the single page of the report. What stands out to me
      particularly in contrast to previous years is two sides of the general
      situation of people being up for first reappointment, second
      reappointment, year to tenure reappointment and finally tenure and
      promotion and a couple of cases where people were tenured already and
      were applying for full professor. In nearly every case there was
      unanimity between the departments, ARPT Committee, and the Academic
      Affairs Office. That has not always being true. There have been years
      in which there were a lot of contentious cases. There were only a few
      last year. One on the reappointment level and two on the promotion
      level. The recommendations that our committee made in each of those
      three disputed cases are the recommendations Academic Affairs ended up
      following. That is the testimony to the good work the ARPT managed to
      put in last year.  Our work was totally independent. Each person on
      the committee had their own specific take of the material in the file
      and then determined by their own reading of the material.  It is not
      until they do that assessment that they begin to compare that to the
      department recommendations. We arrived at those recommendations quite
      independently and were not bound by what the department says and in
      the other level we were not bound by what we think Academic Affairs
      were likely to be favorable toward it. The cases in which there were
      some disagreements between departments and ARPT were all cases in
      which ARPT felt strongly convinced we had the right reading of those
      cases and we are really gratified that Academic Affairs shared that
      ultimately as those cases went through as we recommended.  Attached to
      the ARPT report is the Academic Affairs report for the same year. The
      report does not identify the department or the candidates.  This will
      give you an indication of  the range of cases and dispositions.

 General Education Annual Report (Caroline Sawyer)
 Pending for next meeting.


      Resolution on the Provost Gen Ed Proposal and vote (Amanda Frisken)

    •    The Gen Ed Committee resolution on the Provost General Education
      Proposal is something Gen Ed developed to vote on during our last
      meeting.  The Gen Ed. Committee determined the Provost had consulted
      with many faculty bodies, both Gen Ed. Committee and Gen Ed Task Force
      , add hock groups of faculties and a number of others and we felt that
      he was responsive to faculty concerns.  The Provost modified his plan.
       The Gen Ed Committee urges the Senate to move forward to implement
      the new proposal.
    • Even though the resolution says to implement the plan in spring 2015,
      there may be administrative reasons that may delay part of the
      implementation. The Gen Ed. Committee is fine with it starting on
      spring 2015.
    • The major difference in the new proposal is that associates degrees
      from SUNY colleges, AS and AA degrees will satisfy Old Westbury
      General Education requirements. We are keeping our local requirements
      and proficiencies as part of our program. If someone came with our
      Gen. Ed. satisfied in another college but has a D in Math, the student
      will need to achieve at least a C- in our Math course to have
      proficiency.



    • We are one of two SUNY campuses (the other is Binghamton) that have 44
      credits for Gen. Ed. to complete the Gen. Ed. requirements.  Depending
      how they are structured and you are counting them they could be 48
      because of our four credit courses. The minimum from SUNY is 30
      credits on 7 of 10 courses in Gen Ed. If you are a student in a SUNY
      school that has 3 credits; you have to take 10. If you are a transfer
      student, we require all 10 domains, but some of them can be double
      counted if they satisfy learning outcomes from more of one domain.
      That is the other piece of the compromise that we made where we want
      to insist on 10 domains even if we have 4 credit courses, but we are
      encouraging a development and we are also showcasing the current dual
      designated courses and are encouraging new ones to be created so that
      we can meet this in innovated ways.

Motion to call the question on voting was unanimously accepted.
Voting on the resolution had 21 votes in favor and I against.

 VII. Announcements

    • Dr. Barrett proposed a celebration for the 50 year celebration of the
      college. After a wide exchange of ideas, faculty decided to create a
      Planning Committee for the celebration of the 50 years of the college.
      Mike Kinane could be in charge of the celebration. The sense of the
      Senate is that we will proceed with this idea. Classes should be
      cancelled to attend this event which will be effective around February
      18 and 19 during common hour and also during class time. Classes could
      be merged in one to be gathered in an open space. The senate agreed on
      creating a committee to support this idea and go forward for that.
      All were in favor on voting to carry on with the proposal.

    • The faculty discussed and agreed to organize a vigil at the college
      where students could express their feelings about the recent Grand
      Jury verdicts. The Chair agreed to contact the Presidents’ office to
      set a date and time. A group of faculty and student representatives
      agreed to organize the event.


Amanda Frisken Introduced Helene Nelson, the new Child Care Coordinator.



    • Helene Nelson started in this position during last September and
      stated she is excited to be working at SUNY Old Westbury.

The Child Care Center has children from 6 weeks to 5 years old; it is open
from 7:30 am to 5:30 pm Monday to Friday year round providing service to
the population at the pre-school level getting them ready for kindergarten.
The Center has a close relationship with SUNY Old Westbury administration
and with the Child Care Advisory Board which provides support for our
programs. We work in conjunction with the Co-Program to Community Action
Leadership and Learning so we try to help them to fulfill hours of
community service. We also provide opportunity for work study students as
well as students that require observation hours for academic programs.

    • The infant/toddler program provides a safe and nurturing environment
      in which each child has social engagement with adults and peers. Daily
      interactive experiences help to give them a sense of themselves.

    • The integrated program pre-school helps them to develop early learning
      skills, science and math skills and get ready for kindergarten.

    • Our program utilizes a rich center based curriculum which is
      reinforced by the use of the latest of technology that includes a
      computer and a smart pod in every room, and an iPod for every student.

I invite anyone of you that want to give us a visit to stop at our Center
to see the happy faces of the children eager to learn.


    • Dr. Annette Forti passed away last November after serving our college
      since 1975. We recognize the valuable service and exceptional career
      of our dear professor Forti.

    • Biggest Looser Competition Program is reaching its third anniversary
      and is inviting anyone who wants to participate in joining them.

-Adjournment 2:21 PM.