STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FULL FACULTY MEETING



		Friday, Oct 05, 2018 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location S-100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Calvin Butts (President), Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP Inst. Adv.), Mona Rankin (Executive VP)



Faculty Present:  Ozgun Akgun, Llana Barber, Robert Bednarczyk, Catherine Bernard, Kenneth Brown, Carolina Bustamante, Maria Cabail, Linda Camarasana, Richard Cimino, Jillian Crocker, Maureen Dolan, Veronika Dolar, Anahi Douglas, Fred Fleisher, Curt Friehs, Juan Galvis, Helidon Gjeriji, Patty Harris, Camille Jones, Svetlana Jovic, Seojung Jung, Michael Kavic, Mervyn Keizer, Zenaida Madurka, Joseph Manfredi, Andy Mattson, Roger Mayer, Patricia McLaughlin, Laurie Morris, Do Young Park, Lillian Park, Lisa Payton, Elizabeth Schmermund, Chelsea Shields-Mas, Shalei Simms, Jing Yi Song, Joanne Spadaro, Dana Tomlin, Lisa Whitten, Ryoko Yamamoto, Priscila Ortega



Professional Members of the Senate Present: Ana Martinez, Alonzo McCollum



Visitors:  Betty Berbari, Rachel Littenberg, Jerilyn Marinan, Rossano Rovello, Robert Mevissen, Anthony Barbera, Michael Kinane, Thomas Murphy, Yumi Nicholson, Sandra Kaufmann, Claudia Andrade





DRAFT MINUTES

			

			   I.	Call to Order at 12:32 p.m.				

			

						

			   II.	Approval of Minutes of MAY 11, 2018 (Full Faculty meeting)

			

			The minutes are approved by voice vote.

			

			  III.	President’s Report

			

			Dr. Butts is pleased with the start to the new semester.  Keep teaching at the highest levels and encourage them to live up to rigorous standards.  There were no complaints about parking and this is good.  Thanks to Ray Maggiore and Tim McGarry for the new parking lot with 250 extra spaces which was brought in in record time.  Homecoming kicks off on Wed the 10th.  We need faculty to participate.  Students need to see faculty participation.  Great to see many decorations around campus.  

			We are one of 96 institutions nationwide to receive the Higher Ed Excellence in Diversity Award.  We are the most diverse institution in SUNY.  This is a great achievement.  Many thanks to our faculty and staff.  We started with 1/3 women and 1/3 older students.  Dr. Butts is appalled by the vote in the United States Senate.  We need to advocate for women.  We were recognized by money magazine for the value.  Dean of SAS, Barbara Hillary, was selected by the American Chemical Society Fellows for 2018.  She is in D.C. now.  ACS inducted only 51 scientists from around the world!  Faculty member Llana Barber was announced as co-winner of the 2018 Lois P. Rudnick Book Prize for her book “Latino City”.  Congratulations to her!  Enrollment and admissions continue to put a tremendous amount of effort forth.  It is our academic advisors and many others who have made the incoming class exceedingly joyful and working together.  

			The college exceeded its enrollment targets and we have the largest total enrollment in the college.  It is the first time we have exceeded 5,000 in head count in the college.  The entering class has high school average around 84% and that is better than before.    Growth is good, but we need to be careful to stretch beyond our means.  

			Strategic Planning (SPAAR) is moving forward as a collaboration between administration and faculty.  Co-chairs will be named.  This semester the SPAAR committee will be constituted by the task force in order to start their work.  We have 24 new full-time faculty and 2 new librarians.  Congratulations and welcome to all!  The Provost is reviewing graduate offerings to see if they are operating effectively for the college as a whole.  Please go see the renovated library space.  We have new classrooms and new class sections.  When Dr. Butts leaves he will be calling the Governor.  Dr. Butts will start crying on the call and he is asking for a new science building.   This would be about 100 million dollars.  We cannot meet the need for our students without the lab space that we need.  Chancellor Johnson is on board with this new building.  

			We have gotten a $700,000 grant for early college high school academy in cooperation with Roosevelt high school district.  This district is troubled, and we are honored to work with them.  It will be a learning community within our larger college setting in order to help student gain college credit.  Over 4 years we will touch about 100 students.  

			We have an interesting budget situation where SUNY will fund our college at 41.9 million dollars, 10.1 in state support, 31.8 in tuition revenue.  Our plan will require an additional difference, and this will be covered by using campus reserve funds and fortunately we have those reserves.  Mr. Davis has been good at his job.  Dr. Butts is grateful for the work that he has done, otherwise without him we would have had terrible shortfalls.  For the new Strategic Plan process things will improve for the future.  UUP won and they got their contract ratified.  Old Westbury pays into this collective bargaining, so things will be tight financially.  If we keep our students, we increase our revenue.  Our retention efforts are working, and those efforts are tied to advising and job placement and student programs for commuters and residents alike.  Dr. Butts congratulates everyone for the retention improvements.  Sat May 18th is the commencement ceremony again in the Nassau Coliseum.  

			Many thanks to Mona Rankin Chief of Staff to Dr. Butts.  She has made sure things are fair and balanced.  She has been at the core of what comes out of the President’s office.  Mona will retire in June of 2019.  This shakes up Dr. Butts but this means there will be changes in positions in the President’s office.  Thanks for everything Mona!  

			L. Morris comment that UFS Plenary is in 2 weeks.  She will brag about our enrollment and L. Morris will advocate for the campus.

			L. Barber comments the Governor’s office paid for students to go to Puerto Rico for reconstruction efforts.  You can thank the Governor.

			J.D’Ambroise comments that when Chancellor Johnson came to our campus she mentioned for the future SUNY plans for ride sharing to improve transportation on campus.  The Executive Committee has tried to contact the Chancellor’s office including Teresa Miller since her visit, but the EC has not been successful to receive a response.  Can Dr. Butts look into this?  Yes, he will.

			Faculty comments that enrollment is up but standards are also up.  So it is more difficult for students to get into our college.  Dr. Butts appreciates that, there used to be open enrollment, but we changed our category.  The pushback was that students might not make it into our school.  However, Dr. Butts discovered that no matter what neighborhood students come from, students can learn.

			M. Dolan comments on the Chancellor’s call for zero-net energy and zero-net emissions in SUNY, and the Governor’s goals for reduced carbon emissions and accelerated use of renewables. The Old Westbury community is committed to renewable energy, with a number of green campus goals included in the college’s strategic plan.  Please mention this to the Governor in relation to plans for any new building.

			Dr. Butts mentions that NYIT had previously renovated our dorms, and has students living in our dorms, is now experiencing a challenge with the deterioration of the dorms.  We are advocating on their behalf.  NYIT has agreed to make those repairs.

			

			 IV.	FS Chair’s Report 



Strategic Plan Update: Faculty governance and the Office of the President have staffed and charged the SPAAR Task Force, which will create and charge the Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, & Review Committee (SPAAR) to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Strategic Plan. The Task Force will meet during the fall semester and complete its work by January of 2019. The five faculty members who have been asked by the President to accept an appointment to the Task Force are:

Faculty Senate Chair Andrew Mattson (representing governance) 

Dr. Jillian Crocker (SAS/SY) 

Dr. Amanda Frisken (SAS/AS) 

Dr. Yu Lei (SOB/MMF) 

Dr. Stephanie Schneider (SOE/Childhood Education Literacy) 

Faculty Governance Orientation Q&A, Friday 10/19, 12:20PM, NAB 1100:  What do you need to know about faculty governance and service? Please email us items for the Orientation agenda. The Faculty Senate meeting on Friday October 19th will be devoted to presentations and discussion of faculty governance.  Everyone is welcome to attend. Chairs of the Standing Committees will be presenting and answering your questions. Bring your questions and suggestions! This orientation is in response to senate resolution asking for an orientation as soon as possible following the passage of the resolution on September 21st. 

Are You Seeking Service?  We have some committee vacancies available that can be filled by appointment.  If you wish to get involved, please email the Faculty Senate Chair Andrew Mattson: mattsona@oldwestbury.edu 

Greetings and Announcements from Martha Livingston & UUP:   

Check your mail and the UUP Website for details about the new contract. 

Pre-retirement workshop: October 24th, H-311. 

Look for October edition of Wavelength, our newly-restarted newsletter. UUP welcomes your contributions and suggestions. 

Contact UUP at (516) 333-5770, drop in to the UUP office in the Campus Center, E-202 and 204, or email mlivings@uupmail.org. 

			

			V.	Provost’s Report

			

			There is no formal report, just a few comments.  There is a handout from The Chronicle.  Many thanks to the faculty and especially the Chairs for helping with the new students.  Advisors across the campus worked hard to welcome the new students and many thanks to the Student Success Center.  We exceeded targets.

			New faculty members are introduced one by one.  Welcome to them all!

			

			VI.	Old Business

			

			Transfer Services (Rachel Littenberg)

			

			Rachel moved into the job of the Director of Transfer Services.  We are working with our community college partners to make sure students coming to our campus have chosen to come here and are appropriately prepared.  Many students take the wrong classes, and this creates delays for them.  We meet with students earlier and we counsel them on their classes.  You may have received an email on class evaluations, this helps students choose classes.  We email you frequently about this because we want course evaluations to be done on time to benefit students.  Most students arrive with credits.  We connect students with resources such as advisors, registration, and more.  

			We have a new event National Transfer Student Week Oct 15-19 (after homecoming week).  The kickoff event is the transfer student honors society induction on Oct 15th at 7:30pm.  There is also a kickball game and faculty workshops.  Please participate and watch out for various announcement emails and flyers!

			

			Career Planning & Development (Jerilyn Marinan)

			

			We have career planning painted on the window now, so it is a great advertisement for our services in the campus center.  There is a graduate series workshop to help students understand exams and other things for graduate school.  Students should create a Panther career link account to best access our services.  There is a SUNY initiative with National Grid and we will do a site visit in Melville.   Tell students to read the newsletter since they receive notifications about these workshops and careers fair too.  PACE (path to academic and career excellence) has been hosting many programs over the past year.  We also help reroute students to various resources on campus including tutoring centers and more.   Job placement is not necessarily our focus, instead we do career planning which helps students more with the process part.  We help students with being professional, writing a resume, doing a job search, and preparing for interviews.  Panther Pride homecoming is next week!  Schedules for the events are available on the way out.

			

			VII.	New Business

				

			Institutional Advancement (Wayne Edwards)

			

			Our department has been 3.5 people for a while, and we recently grew to be 4 people.  At many colleges there are 40 people in a department like ours.  We are still lagging behind what other schools are capable of doing.  We will support the Strategic Plan, but because of staffing our goal is to “do less but better”.  Rusano Ruvolo joins our staff.  He is introduced.  Mr. Ruvolo comments that he has many years of experience in institutional advancement and he is happy to be here.  We want to raise the level of giving and the level of participation.  It is less about the amount you give, but if we see more people participating this helps when outside folks look at our institution.  Wayne Edwards started in 1999 and he has served in many roles at the college, and recently he stepped into the role of VP of Institutional Advancement.  The idea of taking money out of our own pockets can be daunting, but it is necessary because when we talk to potential donors they want to know what the college is doing for themselves.  Whether it is $5 or $5,000, anything makes a difference.  There is now a new application process for scholarships and now it is all online.  Last year we had over 300 applications and this is much more than what we expected.  You can donate by payroll deduction.  It is tax deductible. 

			

			SUNY Stands with Puerto Rico (Llana Barber)

			

			Laura Anker asked Llana to speak about the program.  It is a model for mission-aligned service learning.  Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico hard and this comes on the heels of colonialism and a fiscal crisis.  The U.S. government did not fulfill its obligation to Puerto Rico and the Governor of NY provided funds for students to travel there for reconstruction.  Students worked mostly on roofs.  We had students from throughout the SUNY system.  We worked very long days.  It is astounding to see the level of disrepair that most houses are still in after this disaster.  Yes there is a charity component to the trip, and our campus has a different perspective about this.  We had students that are Puerto Rican and were otherwise unable to return to the island without this trip.  This trip was about community not just charity.  Students worked for weeks to understand history and they studied before the trip.  They had class after working on roofs.  Naomi Klein’s book was translated into Spanish and was available in drug stores and students were able to see that while they studied the book.  This academic emphasis often gets lost in larger SUNY internships.  The best learning happens when students are engaged with their communities.  The students were phenomenally impressive.  This should be a model for other study away and community learning projects.  What made this trip fantastic was that it was funded!  This was a tremendous opportunity for students.  The students chose whether they got academic credit, 3 credits for Community Learning 3000.

			

			FUAC Updates (Andy Mattson)

			

			We need a Professor with 10+ years to chair this committee.  Email Andy Mattson if you want to be on this committee.

			

			Report/Request from Open Access Ad-Hoc Committee (Antonia DiGregorio & Ryoko Yamamoto)

			

			In the packet there is a memo from the Board of Trustees.  All campuses are creating Open Access policies.  There are representatives from: each school, the library, and IT.  This committee is only to create a policy not necessarily to run everything.  Different disciplines might have different issues, so we are doing a survey.  You will be receiving an email next week and the survey has 9-10 questions.  Please participate and give us feedback.  The policy will determine who puts things into the repository.  Some campuses require faculty to put works into the repository.  The committee will determine the procedure.

			

			VIII.	Call to Faculty:  Other New Business

			

			Yumi Nicholson from Academic Advising announces an Advising Workshop on Oct 19th 10am-12pm NAB 2034.  New faculty please attend.  Other faculty should also participate in order to give advice.  There will be cookies and coffee.  After that you all can go to the Faculty Governance Orientation in NAB 1100.

			

			IX.	Adjournment 2:18pm			

1