University Faculty Senate

Faculty Senate Governance Orientation

October 19

th

, 2018

SUNY System

SUNY is a huge system.  

64 campuses, 

30  Community Colleges 

l

Nassau and Suffolk Community College

7 

Technology Colleges

Alfred, Cobleskill and Farmingdale

1

4 University Centers and Doctoral granting Institutions  

Stony Brook , Binghamton, Downstate, Optometry

13 University colleges

Old 

Westbury, Geneseo, New Paltz

Board of Trustees Policy:

ARTICLE VI: UNIVERSITY FACULTY § 

1

. 

Composition.

 The University faculty shall be comprised of the Chancellor, who shall be the presiding officer, the executive and administrative officers of the University, and all members of the faculty of each college of the University as defined in Article X, 

§ 

1. 

§ 

2. 

Voting Faculty

. The Chancellor, the executive and administrative officers of the University, and the voting faculty of each college as defined in Article X, § 3, shall be voting members of the University faculty, each of whom shall be entitled to one vote. 

§ 

3. 

Responsibilities.

 The University faculty shall be responsible for the conduct of the University’s instruction, research and service programs.

Charge of the UFS

The SUNY Board of Trustees approved the creation of the University Faculty Senate on October 8, 1953. 

Article VII of the SUNY Policies of the Board of Trustees states 

"the Senate shall be the official agency through which the University Faculty engages in the governance of the University. The Senate shall be concerned with effective educational policies and other professional matters within the University."  

University Faculty Council (UFS)

The membership of the UFS

Chancellor of the University

Two University representatives having University-wide responsibilities Provost and

 Representatives from each State-operated unit and contract college. 

Standing Committees of UFS

Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Committee

Committee on Ethics and Institutional Integrity

Governance Committee

Graduate and Research Committee

Operations Committee

Programs and Awards Committee

Student Life Committee

Undergraduate Committee

Charge: Operations Committee

Operations Committee.  

The Committee shall generate relevant reports and recommendations for the University and its institutions concerning:

the development and administration of budgets, strategic planning, and operations;

matters related to libraries, educational technology, and forms of instructional delivery; and,

personnel policies, as they pertain to budget, operations, diversity, equity, affirmative action and delivery of a high quality SUNY education.

Membership of the Committees

Typically:

Faculty Sector campuses

Liason

 from Community Colleges

Liason

 from System Administration

Executive Committee

Members:

President, UFS

Immediate past President

Vice President

Immediate Past President

Chairs of Standing Committees

Liaison System Administration 

Sector Representatives (University Colleges, Technology Colleges etc.)

Convenor

 of Campus Governance Leaders

Liaison FCCC