ARPT Process in Interfolio
This document presents an overview of the electronic RPT process as it will be implemented for Spring 2021 files. The ARPT
Manual (2020) remains the definitive guide for policies and processes related to Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion, and
Tenure; the Interfolio workflow has been developed to reflect those policies and processes. The “Instructions” presented below
are specific to the Interfolio process and will be visible by selecting the Case Details tab (top right of screen) at each step. The
“Requirements” listed are the documents/forms that must be completed within Interfolio at each step. Additional policy/process
requirements not specific to Interfolio are described in detail in the ARPT Manual.
Pre-Launch: Candidate Notifies ARPT of Committee Members
Candidates are asked to complete the form included (by hyperlink) in ARPT Notification Letters to report their Evaluation
Committee Chair and Membership. Candidate files will be activated on/around December 15 (for Spring Reviews) and July 15
(for Fall Reviews), and the process is facilitated by having this information up front.
Step Zero 1: Candidate Uploads Documents
Candidates receive an email notification when their case is initialized in Interfolio and can begin uploading their documents
into the system as they are available.
Instructions to Candidate
Candidates up for review must upload and submit the following "Candidate Documents" in order for the review process to
begin. Please refer to the "ARPT Manual" for additional information regarding each document/subfile (which may be uploaded
in any electronic file format):
·
Self-Evaluation
·
Current Curriculum Vitae
·
Peer Classroom Observation Reports
·
Student Evaluations Subfile
·
Syllabi and Examinations Subfile
·
Documentation of Service Subfile
·
Documentation of Professional Activity Subfile
·
Previous Department and ARPT Recommendations Subfile (if applicable)
After uploading, previewing, and editing documents (you may change the names or order of documents), select "Submit" to
lock the Candidate Packet and send the case forward to the next step: Evaluation Committee Review.
Once submitted, the candidate will need their Evaluation Committee Chair to "unlock" (and then re-lock) the candidate
documents if modifications to these sections are required at the next step. Interfolio is intended as a tool to move "final"
documents through the review process. Please circulate drafts (e.g. to your Evaluation Committee Chair for feedback) outside
of Interfolio.
Notes
- Internal (Section 6b) and External (Section 11, when included) Letters of Evaluation will be solicited by the Evaluation
Committee (typically the Chair), and then uploaded by the Evaluation Committee Chair in the next step within Interfolio. (See
ARPT Manual pages 27-30.)
- Because the system labels each of the sections listed above, the Table of Contents Requirement in the ARPT Manual is
fulfilled by the Interfolio template design. No separate table of contents is required (but if you think some listing of contents
would be useful to readers, please do so). Please name your files clearly to reflect contents.

1

This file preparation and upload step is unnumbered in Interfolio.

ARPT Interfolio Guidance December 2020

Step 1: Evaluation Committee Review 2
After the candidate uploads their documents and clicks submit, the file moves to the first review step: Evaluation Committee
(EC) Review. The EC Chair uploads any internal/external letters at the start of this step.
Instructions to Evaluation Committee
Each Department will set up an evaluation committee of at least three members. In small Departments, the entire Department
minus the candidate being evaluated may serve in this capacity, or a member may be invited to serve from outside the
Department. Please see the ARPT Manual for details regarding the Candidate’s rights with respect to the constitution of the
Evaluation Committee.
The Evaluation Committee will be responsible for (a) overseeing the collection of the information listed in Section 2 (The
Preparation of Files); (b) evaluating the materials collected; (c) discussing its findings with, and eliciting any additional relevant
data from, the candidate prior to submitting a written report to the Department (the Evaluation Committee Report), a copy of
which will be available to the candidate, along with any Minority Reports originating within the EC.
Requirements at this Step
Evaluation Committee
Chair

Evaluation Committee
Members

1. Upload Internal/External Letters to corresponding sections,
2. Upload the Committee Report (and any Minority Reports) when complete (add to Department
Evaluation Subfile),
3. Complete Form: Indicate whether any minority reports have been appended to
Evaluation Committee Report
4. Send Case forward to Department Review (after documents uploaded/forms completed)
1. Review the file (no sign off required)

The candidate is able to view the file at this step. If modifications to the candidate documents are required the Evaluation
Committee Chair must "unlock" - and then re-lock - the packet.
Upon completion of this step the Evaluation Committee Chair should select "Send Case" at the top of the screen to send the
case forward to the next step: Department Review.

2

Note that the template has been modified for candidates in the Library, which uses a slightly different process.
ARPT Interfolio Guidance December 2020

Step 2: Department Review
After the Evaluation Committee completes its report and sends the case forward to the next step, voting members of the
department will receive an email notification indicating that the case is available for review.
Instructions to Department
Department members will have one week to review the candidate file and Evaluation Committee Report (including any
Minority Reports originating in the EC) prior to the department review meeting. During this time, the candidate may submit a
response to the Evaluation Committee Report. Department members must complete Sign Off form for file review prior to
review meeting.
Following the department review meeting, the Evaluation Committee Chair will report the department vote tally by completing
a required form (please also report vote tally in Procedures), upload the final Department Evaluation and Procedures
Statement to the Department Evaluation Subfile (when complete, including any Minority Reports), and indicate whether any
Minority Reports have been appended to the Department Evaluation. The candidate will have five days to respond to the
Department Evaluation prior to ARPT Deposit (unless the candidate waives the right to respond).
Requirements at this Step (all requirements must be completed prior to ARPT Deposit)
Voting Department
Members

1. Prior to Department Review Meeting, Complete Form: Sign Off 1 of 2 – Confirm File Review
2. Following Department Review Meeting, Complete Form: Sign Off 2 of 2 – Confirm Department
Evaluation Review

Evaluation Committee
Chair

1. Confirm faculty (including self) have signed off on file prior to Department Review Meeting
(view forms under “Case Details”),
2. Complete Form: Report Vote Tally (after Department Review Meeting),
3. Upload Department Evaluation and Procedures (when available),
4. Complete Form: Indicate any Minority Reports (and upload if applicable),
5. Confirm faculty have signed off on department evaluation (completed form 2 of 2) and
Candidate has completed two required forms, and
6. Send Case forward to ARPT Review (after documents uploaded/forms completed).

Candidate

1. Prior to Department Review Meeting, Complete Form: Indicate Response to Evaluation
Committee Report
2. Following Department Review Meeting, Complete Form: Indicate Response to Department
Evaluation
3. If applicable: Upload any responses at this step to Department Evaluation Subfile

Upon completion of this step the Evaluation Committee Chair should select "Send Case" at the top of the screen to send the
case forward to the next step: ARPT Review. ARPT Deposit has not been fulfilled until the case is sent forward to ARPT Review.
Notes
- The file will not be viewable to department members (including EC chair) after ARPT Deposit.
- Please do not complete Interfolio forms until the corresponding tasks have been completed in real life (e.g. don’t sign off on
the Department Evaluation until you have reviewed the Department Evaluation. Form completion is date/time stamped.)
- The department review meeting itself is conducted outside of Interfolio, which does not offer a conferencing or adequate
voting tool. Please include how your review meeting and voting were conducted in the Procedures Statement.
- It will not be possible (without administrator assistance) to send the case forward to the next step if required forms (listed
under “Case Details”) are not completed. The Evaluation Committee Chair can check form completion under “Case Details”
and in the Department Evaluation Subfile. Please contact ARPT if you require assistance.
- Because the system has been setup to follow requirements of the ARPT Manual, the workflow requires that all materials from
the Department Review process (including Minority Reports and Candidate Responses) are uploaded to the file prior to ARPT
Deposit. Any past exceptions to this process will not be treated as precedent.
ARPT Interfolio Guidance December 2020

Steps 3-10
Steps 3-10 in Interfolio reflect stages in the review process subsequent to Department Review per the ARPT Manual and are
listed here. In addition to their access through the Department Review process (Steps 0, 1, and 2), candidates will have the
opportunity to review the file (and submit responses as appropriate) in Steps 4, 7, and 10, marked with an asterisk (*) below.
Step 3: ARPT Committee Review
Step 4*: Human Resources – Candidate Reviews File (Required Form to indicate review)
Step 5: Dean/Director Review
Step 6: Provost Review
Step 7*: Candidate Reviews File, Provides Response (if any) and Academic Affairs Forwards
Step 8: President’s Office Review
Step 9: Human Resources Marks Review Complete & Returns File to Candidate
Step 10*: Candidate Receives Closed Out File (download or copy to Dossier materials that might be needed in future)

ARPT Interfolio Guidance December 2020

Candidate File in Interfolio
This document presents an overview of the layout of Candidate Files within Interfolio. The ARPT Manual (2020) remains the definitive
guide for policies and processes related to Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure; the Interfolio file template and
workflow has been developed to reflect these.
Organization of the Candidate File
Interfolio uses sections (which are effectively folders) to organize review materials. These sections can be expanded or collapsed for
easier viewing under the “Case Materials” tab, or contents may be accessed by selecting “Read Case” toward the top of the screen.
For your reference, the sections you will find in the candidate files (which Interfolio calls “Cases”) are as follows:
Candidate Documents
The section labelled “Candidate Documents” includes all materials uploaded by the candidate. Anything uploaded here will by default
be copied to the candidate’s Interfolio Dossier account and available for use in future review processes. Candidate Documents
includes the following sub-sections, corresponding to those described in Part II of the ARPT Manual.
4. Self-Evaluation
5. Current Curriculum Vitae
6a. Peer Classroom Observation Reports
7. Student Evaluations Subfile
8. Syllabi and Examinations Subfile
9. Documentation of Service Subfile
10. Documentation of Professional Activity Subfile
12. Previous Department and ARPT Recommendations Subfile (if applicable)
Internal Case Sections
Following the Candidate Documents are five “Internal Case Sections” for documents uploaded by individuals other than the Candidate
(e.g. Evaluation Committee Chair, ARPT). Numbers correspond to the sections listed in the ARPT Manual. Sections are organized to
reflect the order in which they are (typically) used, and include the following (marked in bold):
6b. Internal Letters
Includes sample solicitation letter and all internal peer evaluation letters received, uploaded by Evaluation Committee Chair.
11. External Evaluations Subfile
While External Letters are required only for Tenure and Promotion reviews, candidates may include external letters in other
review processes. Includes both 11a (Community Service) and 11b (Professional Activity). Includes sample solicitation letter
and all external letters received, uploaded by Evaluation Committee Chair.
3. Department Evaluation Subfile
All materials related to the Department Review Process (including the Evaluation Committee) should be added by the
Evaluation Committee Chair to the Department Evaluation Subfile, including:
Evaluation Committee Report and Minority Reports (if any),
Department Evaluation and Minority Reports (if any), and
Procedures Statement (if separate), and
Candidate Responses to any of the above documents (if any).
Note: Completed Interfolio forms (e.g. sign offs) corresponding to department review will be viewable here.
ARPT Recommendation
Inside Front Pocket
This section is a virtual "Inside Front Pocket" for the candidate file. It is the repository for materials added to the file during
or after the ARPT Review, as well as any materials the candidate adds to the file after Department Review, including:
Dean/Director Recommendation, Provost Recommendation, President's Determination, and
any materials added to the file after Department Review, including candidate responses to ARPT or Academic Affairs
Recommendations (if any).
ARPT Interfolio Guidance December 2020

Interfolio RPT Frequently Asked Questions
General Questions

Q. What? Where do I find Interfolio? How do I login?
The easiest way to access Interfolio is from the Faculty Portal by scrolling to the list of “Faculty Tools” at the bottom right side of the
screen.
Q. I tried logging in but it’s not working. Help!
Possible Problem: You entered your email address. Use your userid without the @oldwestbury.edu extension.
Possible Problem: You tried logging in from an internet search without first selecting “Partner Institution” as your login mode. See above.
Possible Problem: You need to clear your cache (or use a private browser). Some browsers require faculty to clear their
cache to login to the OW Portal. If this is you, you may need to do the same to login to Interfolio.
Q. I logged in, but I don’t see anything.
You will only be able to view a candidate file when it is in a Step that includes you (e.g. Evaluation Committee Review, Department
Review). Candidates will receive an email notification when their cases are activated and can begin uploading materials as available.
Q. Can candidates make changes to the file after Candidate Documents are submitted?
Interfolio is intended as a tool to move final documents through the review process. Drafts of materials (e.g. the self-evaluation) should
be circulated for feedback outside of Interfolio prior to upload. If necessary the Evaluation Committee Chair can "unlock" the Candidate
Documents if modifications are required. Changes to the file are recorded with date/time stamps.
Q. I hate reading things on the screen. Can I print this entire thing out and read it on the beach?
Yes. Interfolio offers download functions for the case as a whole and for individual documents. Please respect candidate materials and
ARPT process confidentiality as you have done in the past, and keep the trees in mind.

Candidate Questions
Q. How long is this gonna take?
Most of the work of file preparation (e.g. writing the self evaluation, selecting/locating/organizing materials) happens outside of
Interfolio. If you organize your materials in advance, uploading them into this system is generally a series of simple drag and drop
functions. You can upload multiple documents at once, or even full folders.
Q. Can people see this once I upload materials?
Not until you allow them to. Only you can view your file (which Interfolio refers to at various points as your “packet” or “case”) until you
hit submit at the top of the screen. Once you do so, your file will be shared with your Evaluation Committee membership, based on the
names you provided to ARPT. You will be able to view the complete file up until ARPT Deposit is made, and later will have opportunities
to review and respond. (See Process Overview, Steps 3-10; ARPT Manual p6)
Q. Can I modify these documents after I upload them?
Yes. You can make changes to your file freely prior to clicking the “submit” button at the top of your packet. Once you hit submit the file
will be “locked” and sent to the next step (Evaluation Committee Review). At that point you will need your EC Chair to “unlock” (and then
re-lock) the candidate documents for you to make modifications to these sections. Interfolio is intended as a tool to move "final"
documents through the review process. Please circulate drafts for feedback outside of Interfolio.
Q. There isn’t a spot for my Table of Contents. Do I need one?
No. Because the system labels sections that correspond to the contents, the Table of Contents Requirement in the ARPT Manual is
fulfilled by the Interfolio template design. Please help others find your materials by naming files to clearly reflect their contents.
Q. It says I can upload any type of file or hyperlinks. Can I just post a link to materials on my webpage?
No. Please post the documents themselves rather than external links. If media (e.g. videos) make up a significant portion of your file you
can post external links, but please also include a screen shot and description (like you might have for a paper file).
Q. I tried uploading a document but it keeps generating an error. Is there a problem with the file?
Usually not. This error is often generated when uploading multiple files at once. Try uploading just this one file. If the problem persists,
note that Interfolio will not upload document files that have macros enabled.
Q. Can I reorder the files once I upload them?
Yes. When uploaded as a batch, files typically are listed in order by size (smaller files upload first). You can re-order them under Case
Materials by hovering over the file name and dragging. There is no icon to indicate this movement, and it is sometimes glitchy, but it is
possible. Alternatively, you can upload one file at a time in the order you prefer.
ARPT Interfolio Guidance December 2020

Q. Does it matter how I name my files?
The ARPT Manual does not include guidelines for file naming, but please keep file presentation in mind. Reviewers will be able to see
your file names, and the clearer they are, the simpler your file is to review. A numbering system that corresponds to the sections listed in
the ARPT Manual is often useful, as are titles that indicate content.
Q. It says I have a form to fill out but I can’t find it.
Instructions for each step and all required forms can be located by clicking the “Case Details” tab at the top of the screen.
Q. Can I save my materials from one review to the next?
Each document you upload will be added to your Dossier account for long-term storage (unless you opt out). Your file will also complete
the review process with its return to you, so you’ll have access to all materials uploaded as part of the review process. Files stored in
Dossier will also be available for other processes that use Interfolio, like the Excellence in Teaching, Service, Scholarship & Creative
Activities awards, promotion to distinguished rank, etc. Documents will needs to be moved into a new “case” for future reviews.

Evaluation Committee Chair Questions
Q. How do I solicit letters?
We are not using Interfolio to solicit Internal or External Letters; please solicit letters as you have done in the past. You will have the
opportunity to upload letters received after the candidate submits their documents, at which time you will receive an email notification.
Q. How do we vote?
Interfolio does not provide an anonymous voting tool. Votes should be conducted outside of Interfolio using a polling tool of your choice.
Please include voting results and specify how voting was conducted in the Procedures Statement, and report the vote tally via the
corresponding Interfolio form.
Q. How do I upload review materials?
Only the Evaluation Committee Chair and the Candidate can upload documents to the file at the Evaluation Committee/Department
Review stages. Do so under “Case Materials” by clicking “Add File” beside the appropriate section (see section descriptions and ARPT
Manual). Most files you upload should be added to the Department Evaluation Subfile (including the Evaluation Committee Report and
any Candidate Responses at this stage). Internal and External Letters should be added to the corresponding sections.
Q. I uploaded stuff but can’t view it. Help!
If you are having a hard time viewing sub-sections or uploaded materials, check to make sure you have expanded all of the sections of the
file. You can do this either by clicking the carrots (>) beside section names (Candidate Documents; Internal Sections), or by selecting
“Expand All” on the blue bar in the middle of the page. Remember that the “Internal Sections” (including the Department Subfile) come
at the bottom of the page, below the Candidate Documents.
Q. How do I check to see if my colleagues have completed the Required Forms?
You can view responses to forms under “Case Materials” in the Department Evaluation Subfile, below materials. You can get a quick
overview of who has submitted a response by clicking “Manage Respondents” beside the name of the form under “Case Details.”

Department Member Questions
Q. How do I “sign off” on the file?
When the file is available for department for review you will receive an email notification that provides direct access. You can review the
file contents either by selecting the “Case Materials” tab or the clicking the “Read Case” button at the top of the screen (each provides a
different view, but the content is the same). Once you have reviewed the file, select the “Case Details” tab to locate the Required Forms
for this step, and complete form 1 of 2, a sign off sheet to confirm that you reviewed the file. As in the past, this form must be completed
prior to the Department Review meeting.
Q. How do I “sign off” on the Department Evaluation?
You will find a second form in the same location, under the “Case Details” tab, listed under Required Forms. Complete form 2 of 2 to
“sign off” on the Department Evaluation. Please do not complete this sign-off prior to reviewing the Department Evaluation (i.e. please
don’t complete both “sign off” forms at the same time; form completion is date/time stamped).
Q. How do I add a Minority Report?
Only the Evaluation Committee Chair and Candidate can upload files. If you have chosen to submit a minority report, you can email it to
either of them and they will add it to the Department Evaluation Subfile on your behalf. The department will be able to view the
document once uploaded. This addition must be completed prior to the ARPT Deposit, at which point it will no longer be possible to
make additions to the Department Evaluation Subfile.
ARPT Interfolio Guidance December 2020