SUNY OLD WESTBURY

POLICY ON STUDENT RIGHTS & ASSEMBLY PROCEDURES
1.

Purpose

SUNY Old Westbury (the “College”) seeks to encourage and preserve freedom of expression
and inquiry within the entire college community. The College, as a public institution, serves
uniquely as a marketplace for the exchange of ideas and opinions and as a forum for the public
expression of views. Some of the expressions may be counter to commonly held or popular
values, theories, and beliefs. SUNY Old Westbury has a special obligation to protect the First
Amendment rights of free speech and assembly. The United States and New York Constitutions
guarantee these rights.
2.

Scope

This policy is applicable to all SUNY Old Westbury students as defined in the College’s Student
Code of Conduct. The College’s “Public Forum Free Speech” Policy applies to all third parties,
who are not sponsored by the College or a recognized student group, who want to use the
College’s designated public forum for free speech purposes.
3. Definitions
Public Area: Space designated by the College as open and not requiring a reservation for use. *
Assembly: A group of students gathering together in a public area for a common purpose. This
includes, but is not limited to, activities such as protests, demonstrations, rallies, vigils, and
picketing. Due to limited space at the College, when it is anticipated that participants for a
particular assembly will equal or exceed ten (10) students, the sponsor/organizer must submit a
Request for Services.
4.

Rights of Students

a.

SUNY Old Westbury students are guaranteed the following rights:
i.
ii

The right to examine and discuss all questions of interest to them, and to express
opinion privately and publicly;
The right to learn in the spirit of free inquiry;

* At the College, public areas are limited. These areas are often reserved for particular events
and activities, but are otherwise open for general use by students. For information or questions
about public areas, please contact the Student Union Building & Events Manager in the Student
Union, Room 309, (516) 876-3071.
1|Page

iii.
iv.

The right to
encouraged
The right to
The right to

be informed of the purposes of all research in which they are expected or
to participate either as subject or researcher;
freedom from censorship in campus newspapers and other media;
freedom of speech, press, and inquiry shall not be interpreted as an

authorization for a student, who sits on a committee, to disseminate or divulge any

vi.

5.

information that was given on a basis of confidentiality within a committee; and
The right to hold public meetings and to engage in peaceful, orderly assemblies and
demonstrations.

Rights of the College
a. The College will not interfere with orderly assemblies in public areas of grounds and
buildings unless participants engage in any of the following conduct:
L
Prevent the orderly conduct of a College function or activity, such as classes, lectures,
meetings, interviews, ceremonies, and other public events;
ii, Obstruct the free movement of vehicles or of persons, including, but not limited to in
any building or facility, inclusive of blocking hallways and doors;
iii. Willfully cause injury or damage to persons or property;
iv. Willfully operate audio amplification ‘equipment in a manner that conflicts with normal
College operations or that is deemed injurious to health and safety; **
Jeopardize the safety and security of others;
Vi. Enter into any private office of an administrative officer, member of faculty, or staff
member without implied or explicit permission;
vii. Without authorization from the Division of Student Affairs and University Police,
oceupy a building after it is normally closed;

viii.

ix,

b.

Without authorization from the Division of Student Affairs and Department of

Maintenance & Operations, construct structures, inclusive of objects requiring
penetration in concrete or grass, or camp on College grounds; or
Violate the provisions of the SUNY Policy 3653, titled “Rules for the Maintenance of
Public Order”.
Violations of this policy could result in disciplinary action under the College’s Code for
Student Conduct.

** Sound amplification that interferes with class activity, College events or activities, or that is
in violation of Village of Brookville and/or Town of Oyster Bay or other ordinances is not
permitted.

2|Page

6.

Assembly Procedures
a.

i.

b.

i.

Statement
SUNY Old Westbury respects and supports students’ efforts to exercise their rights to
free speech and assembly. The Division of Student Affairs has designated the Center
for Student Leadership and Involvement (“CSLI”) to provide the appropriate support
for the successful implementation of these events. Following College procedure will
ensure a safe and effective assembly activity. Every effort will be made by the College
to respond affirmatively to all requests to engage in assembly activity. However,
consideration must be given to the time, place, and manner of the assembly activity to
ensure the health and safety of the participants and the non-interference with authorized
College business, activities, or events.
Services

To help ensure the safety of participants and the protection of the rights of all members

of the campus community, the College can provide services such as location, safety,
crowd control, sound equipment (unless prohibited in certain areas as per College
rules), site preparation/cleanup, and/or other such facilities or services it deems
necessary (“Services”).
c.
1

Space Reservation Request
Assemblies for which services are necessary (see paragraph (ii) below) should, within

three (3) business days prior to the planned event, submit a Facility Reservation
Ui.

ii.
iv.

Request Form, as follows:
:
The Facility Request Form will include the name of the sponsor/organizer, the proposed
location and any other services sought, the date and time of the planned assembly, and
the number of persons expected to participate.
The request form should be submitted to the Student Union Building & Events

Manager in Student Union, Room 309, (516) 876-3071.
The Student Union Building & Events Manager or designee will promptly respond to
the request for services after receipt of the written request and prior to the date of the

" assembly.

vi,

The Student Union Building & Events Manager will review the request and work with
the sponsor/organizer to accommodate requests and determine a reasonable time, place,
and manner for the assembly activity.
While every attempt will be made to accommodate all requests, some modifications to
the assembly activity request may be required due to the availability of the proposed
time and place of the activity. .The Student Union Building & Events Manager will
inform you of these modifications and guide you as you plan your assembly activity.

3]Page

vii,

In the event that the proposed assembly activity is planned in direct response to a
current event, the Division of Student Affairs and CSLI realizes that it may not be
possible to submit a request in advance. In such cases, the event organizer should
connect as soon as possible with either the Student Union Building & Events Manager
or a CSLI staff member in order to swiftly coordinate the assembly activity.

d.
i,

No Services Required
Assemblies requiring no services (when it is anticipated that participants will not
exceed ten (10) students) may take place without any prior notification by the sponsors
and/or Organizers. However, conformity with the specific campus rules noted above, is
required.

If you are unsure of whether your assembly requires services, you are encouraged to contact the
appropriate office designated in subparagraph (c)(3) above for guidance.

4|Page

Public Forum Free Speech
Summary
The following constitutes the State University of New York at Old Westbury’s ‘time, place and

manner policy on the use of State University of New York at Old Westbury (“SUNY Old
Westbury” or “the College”) owned facilities by third parties (not sponsored by the College
Amor by recognized student organizations) for free speech purposes as approved by the College
Council pursuant to a delegation of authority by the SUNY Board of Trustees.

(See SUNY

Policy 5603 - Use of Facilities by Non-Commercial Organizations)
Reasons for this Policy
As an institution of higher education, SUNY Oid Westbury respects and fully supports the rights
granted to individuals under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution regarding
free speech,

Accordingly, SUNY Old Westbury has adopted free speech policies for third

,

parties, who are not sponsored by the College and/or a recognized student organization, but want
to use the Campus for free speech purposes.

As a public entity, partially funded by NYS tax dollars, SUNY Old Westbury will provide a
Designated Public Forum to third parties outside of the Campus Community for their exercise of
free speech rights. To comply with existing law, the College recognizes that it will be dedicating

its scarce resources to the third parties, including staff time for the management of the
Designated Public Forum, the cost associated/loss of revenué with the use of space itself, and

possibly utilizing University Police and other administrative offices' staff, to provide for the
public safety of participants.
In deaktirp-and. adopting this policy, SUNY Old Westbury weighed its competing obligations and
responsibilities: to meet its educational mission, to meet its legal obligations as a public entity to

provide a Designated Public Forum for free speech by third parties, to meet its audit and control
obligations in managing NYS property under its jurisdiction, and to meet its obligations for the
orderly and safe operation of its Campus, while responsibly managing and allocating its scarce
resources in pursuit of its education mission for its students.
Policy Application
This policy shall apply to all third parties, who are not sponsored by SUNY Old Westbury and/or

a student group, who want to use the College’s Designated Public Forum for free speech
purposes.

This policy does not apply to students, speakers officially sponsored by recognized

student groups, faculty or staffas other reservation and use policies apply to those campus
community members.
Definitions
Black-out days
The College has ‘blacked-out' certain days on its calendar wherein the use of the campus and its facilities, including outdoor spaces are reserved exclusively for Campus related activities that are
at the very core of its primary educational mission.

During these blackout periods, no third party

shall be allowed to use the Designated Public Forum for free speech purposes.

»

The College defines the black-out periods to include the following:
During Opening Weekend for the commencement of fall and spring semesters;

b.

During reading periods and examination periods as set forth on the then current academic

c.

During graduation-related activities and events;

d.

During major fall or spring campus-wide celebrations, such as Homecoming;

e.

During the conservation shut down of educational buildings and administrative offices as

’

calendar;

defined on its calendar when the temperature of the offices shall be below 60 degrees

Fahrenheit (typically between the end of the examination period when students leave
campus for the winter holiday break and a few business days after the first of the New

Year). This time frame is included in the black-out period because the offices are
typically closed for the receipt of applications and the Campus Is virtually vacant in order
to conserve energy and to save money to meet state budget reductions.

Designated Public Forum

SUNY Old Westbury identifies the following outdoor space as its Designated Public Forum
‘Location: the sidewalk outside the Campus Center, in between the two flagpoles (United States
and State of New York flags).

The College designates this outdoor space for its Designated

Public Forum as this space is a highly pedestrian trafficked area on the College’s Campus by
students, faculty, staff, and visitors. The Campus Center houses several administrative
departments and offices, a cafeteria, Food Court Atrium, and the campus library, as well as

several frequently used meeting rooms for the campus community.

The public forum cannot

obstruct the entrance to any surrounding buildings due to fire code regulations.

The use of the

Designated Public Forum location is also not likely to interfere with classroom instruction or
dormitory residences.

The President shall have the authority to change, either permanently or temporarily, the site of
the Designated Public Forum Location to another area of the campus to address concerns for the
health, safety and welfare of the campus community.
Time Restriction/Noise Ordinance: Third Party Applicants will be allowed to use the Designated
Public Forum Location for up to a four-hour time block during the hours of 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
during the academic year and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. during the summer, if
the space is available, is not during a black-out period, and must comply with the Village of

Brookville and the Town of Oyster Bay Noise Ordinances.
Third Party

,

.

A person(s) who wants to use the Designated Public Forum for free speech purposes and the
person(s) is not a student, faculty or staff member at the College, and the person(s) is not

officially sponsored by either the College and/or a Student Association recognized student group
to speak at the College.
Policy
A.

The College is providing aDesignated Public Forum for use by third parties for their free

speech purposes.

B.

Reservation and Recordkeeping of the Use of Space:
i.

Third parties who seek to use the Designated Public Forum must:
1.

Complete a Designated Public Forum application (attached); and

2.

File the application with the Assistant to the President for Administration or designee

prior to three (3) business days’ time period in which the College must respond to the

Applicant's request to use the Designated Public Forum as set forth in B (ii) below

(applications received after 3:00 p.m. on a given business day shall be considered as

having been received on the morning of the next business day). The applicant

assumes responsibility for proper delivery to the Office of Facilities Rentals ina

timely manner.

The office is located in the Campus Center, Room H-317 and is open

8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, for deliveries, except for holidays,
summer sessions, and certain college-restricted black-out days as previously noted.

ii.

SUNY Old Westbury shall review the application and respond to the applicant no
later than the close of business on the third business day after application is received.
1. Ifthe application is completed fully and signed by the applicant and the date and time
3

is available for use, the College shall inform the applicant of its approval t to use the
designated forum on the date and time so requested.
2.

Ifthe application is not complete and/or it is not signed, the College will likely return

the application to the applicant for completion. The three (3) business days' time

period will begin running again once the completed and signed application is received

by the Office of Facilities Rentals.
3.

Ifthe space is already reserved to its capacity for the date and time requested, or if the
date and time requested is during a "blackout period" as previously noted, the College

shall inforrh the applicant of the same and offer the applicant the next available date
and time for the use of the space.
C.

The College shall not:

a.

Inquire as the nature or content of the free speech;

b.

Charge the applicant an application fee to reserve the Designated Public Forum;

c.

Charge the applicant/third party for the use of the space;

d.

Impose insurance requirements on the applicant/third party; or

_ &

Charge the applicant for any additional costs to the College that the College may

incur due to the use of the space by the applicant/third party, such as security.

D.

The applicant/third party shall:

a. Be responsible for following all parking regulations at SUNY Old Westbury,
including obtaining a Visitor’s Parking Permit from University Police.
b.

Be responsible for picking up from the Designated Public Forum any brochures,

pamphlets, leaflets or other handouts or goods that the third party speaker brought with
him/her to disseminate during his/her speech, and properly.disposing of the same in

public garbage receptacles or taking them with him/her. Failure to comply with this
provision may result in future denial of use of the Designated Public Forum.
c.

Not use megaphone equipment for the amplification of the speech; however, upon

written request at the time of application, and on the application, by the applicant, and
weather permitting to protect the College’s equipment, the College will provide a
microphone and sound system for the speaker.

EB.

SUNY Old Westbury reserves the right to terminate any use of the Designated Public Forum

in the event either the speaker or a member(s) of an audience engages in conduct that violates
the SUNY Rules for the Maintenance of Public Order, adopted in accordance with Education

Law Section 6430 and 8 NYCRR 535, in order to secure the orderly operation of the Campus for
the safety of the entire Campus Community or Village of Brookville and/or Town of Oyster Bay
Noise Ordinances.
Completed applications to use the Designated Public Forum should be sent to or hand delivered
to:

The Office of Facilities Rentals
Attn: Assistant to the President for Administration or designee
Campus Center, Room H-317

:

All applications must be reviewed and approved by the Assistant to the President for

Administration or designee.
Please call the Office of Facilities Rentals at (516) 876-3483 with any questions about the
application process.