A-Parking Task Force Committee Executive Summary:

i- Problem charged to the Parking Task Force Committee to investigate:
In the Fall of 2017, there was an increase in student enrollment in conjunction with limited parking

spaces due to the PGA tour’s delayed clean up. This caused much tension between campus users

(i.e. faculty, staff, students, and visitors) that resulted in University Police (UP) permitting safe,

yet illegal temporary parking situations to accommodate the campus users.

The Parking Task

Force Committee sought to reactively better understand what factors contributed to this issue and
what could be done moving forward to proactively prevent such repeated circumstances to the best
of SUNY-OWs ability.
ii - Parking Task Force Committee Actions:
The Parking Task Force Committee met four times in the Fall 2107 semester with a team of
individuals including dialogue and input from all campus users, facilities, the UUP, UP, and
administration. These meetings created the necessary discussion to identify the needs of all parties
and how to best address the issues equitably through a set of recommendations.
iii - Parking Task Force Committee Findings:
The Parking Task Force Committee identified that the key issue was a lack of clear forms of
communication and campus signage as it related to campus user parking needs. In addition, more
transparent dialogue between administration and Faculty Governance should have taken place in
discussions of the new parking lot expected Fall 2018. Moving forward it would be prudent for
Faculty Governance and the UUP to be involved in discussions or decisions that impact the campus
users, as what occurred this Fall 2017 semester.

iv - Parking Task Force Committee Outcomes:

The Parking Task Force Committee has identified a list of 11 recommendations (pp. 9-10) that
reflect the needs of the campus users voiced by the parities input within the committee’s meetings,
as well as, an updated campus map with parking spaces numerated for each lot (see Appendix pg.

11).

The Parking Task Force Committee will forward these recommendations to the Faculty

Senate and Administration for consideration to proactively manage future parking needs and
preventing repeated parking issues as experienced this Fall 2017 semester.

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7__

1/05/2018

1

I-Problems and Background Information:

In the Fall 2017 semester at SUNY OW, there was a number of factors that resulted in increased
competition for parking spaces and ultimately inadequate parking spaces to address the
demands/needs of faculty, staff, and students. One major factor was the PGA tour delaying the
removal of their event related products and occupying nearly one-third of the Clark Center’s
parking lot from August to October 2017. The increase in student enrollment as a by-product of

yearly projections, an increase in student transfer rates, and the Excelsior Program also resulted in
more than the usual amount of students. Moreover, to meet this increased student demands, more
adjunct faculty were hired across the campus, which in turn, also need amply parking spaces.
Altogether, there is a large number of faculty including adjuncts (i.e., approximately 300 in total)
and an estimated number of students of 4,600 that come to SUNY-OW almost daily. In addition,
there are another estimated 200 staff members. The number of available parking spaces cannot

accommodate all of these individual’s needs, which poses work labor union issues as well. A
temporary solution to reimburse and/or not charge for parking permits and use of atypical parking

on side roadways along campus were offered to address the parking demands and to provide a
creative solution to creating additional parking spaces that were directed by University Police
(UP).

This temporary

intervention was in effect from August to November

2017 and normal

restricted parking enforcement was resumed with ticketing for illegal parking on campus.
Communication regarding parking across the college has been a contentious issue, which is why
the Parking Task Force Committee was formed. As such, parking competition and occupancy has
reached an all-time high resulting in the following issues that were reviewed and discussed by the
Parking Task Force Committee in the Fall 2017 semester:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

How to manage this situation with continued student growth trajectories.
How to manage this situation during inclement winter weather (i.e., snow, ice, flooding,
and its removal; especially over gravel-based parking lots).
Accommodating students with OSSD needs to have close/proximity parking to their school
business needs.
Accommodating students and faculty with health related and disability needs to have
close/proximity parking to their school business needs.
Developing new walkways, trails, and/or ramps that provide less physical and/or
physiological strain/effort for faculty, student, and staff with disabilities or other health

6.

related issues to traverse the topography of the campus from parking lots to school
buildings. Perhaps these pathways can be color-coded (i.e., blue trials consistent with
disability color-coded signage) and adding them to the campus map once created.
Consider developing a faculty and adjunct faculty parking lot or at least a number of
priority parking spaces within each lot to accommodate such faculty needs.
These
faculty/adjunct faculty parking lots could also be color-coded as well (i.e., faculty green
and adjuncts red).

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7

1/05/2018

2

7.

Residential students that live on campus park their cars and tend not to move them during

the week.

Thus, reducing the number of available spots throughout the course of a given

day for commuter students that drive to campus. This issue is due to residential students
not having their own dedicated parking lot space near or close to the student dorms.
Residential students should have a distinct color-coded decal (i.e., purple to identify such
vehicles).

Review on campus shuttle bus pick up and drop off from parking lot B to the main campus

center needs and/or reallocate needs to best serve campus users.
Campus parking signage is inadequate, non-modern, and un-purposeful for directing
students, faculty, staff, and visitors to identify and use current parking lots and spaces
effectively.

10. Encourage use of public transit would be an alternative option, but the campus is limited
in the ways in which this can be done.

Last year, the Faculty Senate assembled a Shuttle

Bus Task Force Committee that looking into ways to aligned shuttle buses with the LIRR

and NICE public transportation systems, reviewed all schedules, and surveyed ~ 400
faculty and student shuttle bus riders. From the committee’s work and review of the shuttle
bus, it was determined that the shuttle bus is operating to the best of its ability and an
increase in communication of the bus location with riders was the main issue. Currently,
the facilities Department has communicated that to best address the issue, all campus users
can access the “TransLoc Rider App” which is freely available to download and install on
any cellular phone or portable device with App store capabilities. This TransLoc Rider
App, permits the user to identify all nearby transit systems that they can use to plan their
daily travels using mass transit. In addition, campus users should familiarize themselves
with the campus bus shuttle map.
Shuttle bus schedules: https://www.oldwestbury.edu/campus-bus
http://www.nicebus.com/Maps-Schedules/Interactive-Systemschedules:
bus
Nice
Map/Individual-NICE-Bus-Maps-and-Schedules.aspx?ID=6589

In order to address these needs clearly we would need to know the following information:
1.

Exact number of residential students who possess a car and park their car on campus. This
information can be obtained through student life and perhaps parking services.
Exact number of faculty, adjuncts, students (i.e., non-residential and residential) and staff
that work on campus.
Exact number of vehicles registered with parking services (i.e., decal holders).
The number and location of parking lots on campus and how many spots each lot holds.
Determine how many of these spots within each parking lot, at present, are dedicated to
disability, faculty, adjuncts, staff, and students.
Calculate each parking lot average distance and time required to travel from and difficulty
traveling from each parking lot to each building. We recommend that a databased table
should be constructed of such time/difficulty in travels, which can be used to de-bunk

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7_—_1/05/2018

3

and/or solidify claims of a given lot being too far/takes too long to walk from or can
confirm inadequate health and disability accommodations justifying the need to develop

appropriate walking trails). Notably, careful attention must be considered when traveling

6.

7.

the topography of these suggested walking trails/routes as they may induce
inadvertent/unintentional stressors to faculty, staff, and students with physical and/or
physiological disabilities or other health related issues.

Assess peak traffic/parking congestion times and determine which parking lots have open

parking spaces during peak times and determine why students, faculty, and staff are not
using them.

Obtain an estimate as to how many new parking spots will be created by Fall 2018 with

the new parking lot construction plans. Determine how many of these spots are dedicated
to disability, faculty, adjuncts, staff, and students. Determine if these new parking lot
construction plans include a small allocation of budget to develop a beginning residential
parking as well.
II-Meeting Issues:
The Facilities Department has been discussing many options on how to resolve the issues and we
learned more about them. However, every suggestion offered was not received in a manner that
was conducive towards resolving the issues that the Parking Task Force Committee was charged
with in a way to promote Faculty Governance within such decision-making processes. It appears
that cost is the key factor when considering to either accept/reject any suggestion offered by the
Parking Task Force Committee; yet, only “no,” “can’t,” 0 46 “it won’t work,” etc. statements are
offered to the Parking Task Force Committee suggestions. In an effort to create a more effective
dialogue between the Parking Committee and the Facilities Department moving forward we
suggest the following:
To ask that the Facilities Department offer responses to the
suggestions by telling us how much a given suggestion would
High general coding system. This will remove dialogue of
stimulate more “brain storming” for ideas in which more

Parking Task Force Committee
cost using a Low, Medium, and
practicality and assessment and
suggestions can be offered for

consideration. This also provided a means to assess in a more systematic way, general costs that
would be associated with which suggestions to determine a more appropriate cost vs. need
assessment for current and future campus parking related issues.
Table 1. Conversational strategy to approach suggested resolutions to the current and
foreseeable future parking issues on campus.
Potential Solution
& How it will
resolve our current
issues

App with built in
parking space

Concerns &
Problems with
Potential
Solution

Cause increased
competition for

Change Created

Estimated Relative
Costs (High, Med,
Low)

Can have a
beneficial impact, it

High
~$300-600K

OSSD, Disability,
and other Health
Related Issues
Addressed

Would have to be
considered based on

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7_ _ 1/05/2018

4

sensors, will provide
faculty, students,

and staff with in-themoment updates on
available parking
spots.
Creating sign arm/
draw posts with IDcard activation
restricting areas in
each parking lot for

spots at the given
time, sensors will
not work if
blocked by snow,

Create temporary
carport shelters for
shuttle bus pickup
from parking lot B.

each parking lot
space allocation to
user, ADA, and

regulatory
compliance issues.

puddles, etc.

Sign arm/ draw
posts, at times,

are faulty and
costly to repair.

faculty, adjuncts,

and staff. It
addresses the issue
of ensuring that
faculty, adjuncts,
and staff can get to
work on time to
provide services to
our main consumer
the students.
Create a temporary
residential parking
lot by the dorms
using gravel until
future money is
available to develop
the lot. This
eliminates
residential cars from
preoccupying
parking spaces
permanently
throughout the
week.
Increase more
parking lot
signage/campus
maps from all other
parking lots to direct
drivers better to
other potentially
available parking
lots.

is modern, informs
all faculty, staff, and
students

Will require
caution due to
gravel not being
an entirely
smooth surface,

difficulty clearing
snow in has the
increased

potential for

flooding, and

gravel dings and
dents unto

Can increase
faculty, adjunct, and
staff ability to get to
work at the expense
of reducing more
student parking
spaces.

Can increase

faculty, adjunct, and

staff and nonresidential
commuter student’s

Moderate

~$40K per lot
entrance/exit

Would have to be
considered based on
each parking lot
space allocation to

user, ADA, and

regulatory
compliance issues.

High

~$200K

Would have to be
considered based on
each parking lot
space allocation to
user, ADA, and

ability to get to

regulatory
compliance issues.

work/school without

reducing more
student parking
spaces.

vehicles,

Digital signage
boards would be
the way to go.
However, if we

opt for non-digital
signage, this may
be difficulty to
read at times and
during inclement
weather.

Carports can be
repurposed for
other events on
campus when no

Will provide drivers
with updated in the
moment options if
digital signage is

Low
~$1-2K with low
cost basic signage

used, otherwise non-

digital signage
options may be less
effective and visible.
The latter may result
in more drivers
circling and
congesting a given
parking lot, whereas
the former may
reduce parking
competition for a
given space.
Increases faculty,
adjunct, staff, and

student safety during
inclement weather.

Would have to be
considered based on
each parking lot
space allocation to
user, ADA, and

regulatory
compliance issues.

As per last

discussion, this item
is no longer needed
as a bus shelter was

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7

Would have to be
considered based on

each parking lot

space allocation to

1/05/2018

5

Will provide faculty,
adjuncts, staff, and
students with an
appropriate shelter

during inclement

ground in certain
areas may be
cumbersome or
limited due to
topography.

Increase parking lot

May increase

designated parking

UP and parking
complaints.
Makes students

faculty, red adjunct,

longer distances
to get to classes.

UP/parking services

need to physically
paint a floorparking lane by
using a coloredcoded signpost
with matched
decal. Colored-

weather, while
waiting on the
shuttle bus that can
take up to 15-30
minutes to arrive.
space signage and
put signposts to
color-code

in all lots (i.e, blue
disability, green

yellow staff, and
purple residential
students). These
signposts would
coordinate with the
same color-coded
parking decals for

to easily ticket for
illegal parking. This

will effectively

communicate who
can park where
within each lot.
Ticketing

mechanism within

student ticking by

have to walk

This replaces the

lack of

rather than being

a more proactive

continue to
address future
parking problems
associated with
the needs of the
college campus in

allocated elsewhere. | manner.
Email all students an | Not a guarantee
updated map of the
that this may
parking lot locations
remain stable as

which parking lots
typically have
spaces during peak

regulatory
compliance issues.

upon.

Increases

communication of
ensuring individuals
with disabilities,
faculty, adjuncts,
and staff have been

Low

Not that costly with
basic signage

Would have to be
considered based on

each parking lot

space allocation to
user, ADA, and
regulatory

compliance issues.

thought of and were
given areas to park
to get to work ina
timely manner.

This will address | May offset the need

capital to

congestion times are
with information on

ground that it rests

user, ADA, and

increase a small
cost within
parking services,

funds acquired

should have a large |
portion of the funds |
collected (i.e., as
public knowledge)
re-invested into
parking lot needs

However, it is not
secure within the

coded decals may

UP/parking services | money/available

and when peak

relocated already.

longer needed,
securing to

the beginning and
end of semesters
trends may
change.

to continue to raise

Low

| parking permit costs

Would have to be

procedurally

discussed and

temporarily.

worked through the
college’s faculty
governance and
administration.

Will inform drivers
better about where
to look for potential
parking.

Low

N/A

times.

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7

RR

TT

ES

1/05/2018

6

III-Potential Solutions:

1.

There are 10 parking spots behind the NAB, which could be converted into a temporary
adjunct or residential student parking lot. Additionally, other areas around such highdemand classroom buildings could be assessed for developing temporary gravel lots so
long as an appropriate environmental assessment/survey can be conducted prior to such

construction being undertaken.
Increase communication and awareness to faculty, staff, and students about the number of
parking lots and parking spaces within each lot. The Parking Task Force Committee
determined the following: the Clark Center lot has 360, the Academic Village lot has 265,
the Student Union lot has 137, and the Campus Center lot has 794 parking spaces (See
Appendix pg. 11). Additionally, information as to which parking lots would have spaces
during peak times should be emailed and text message alerted to all faculty, staff, and,
students. Inform all faculty, staff, and students of the plans to develop a new parking lot
and how many more parking spaces this will increase on campus. This was determined to
be ~ 288 additional parking spaces in the Fall 2018 semester.
. The current campus parking lot signage (i.e., words only) lack modernization. Digital
signage with solar powered panels should be considered and installed to update all faculty,
adjuncts, staff, and students whether a parking lot is full or which parking lots still have
spaces during peak times.
Digital signage allows more than one message to be
programmed and updated as semester demands change, student enrollment increases, or
inclement weather reduces parking options. Additionally, signage within buildings and
walkways should all be re-evaluated for accuracy and consistency as the campus has
evolved over the last 52-years, and some signage is inaccurate, not visible for populations
with visual disabilities, and are furthermore outdated.
Look into using ID card sign-arm draw post restrictions for faculty, adjunct, and staff
parking to prevent students from parking in these spaces once created for restricted use.
There should be restrictions for visitors to have restricted parking to more distant spaces
such as parking lot B to free-up more accessible parking for our faculty, staff, and students.
Visitors can also be charged $5 for daily parking to bring in supplemental revenue. If
visitors do not have appropriate paid daily passes (i.e., which can be made through a simple
orange color-coded paper to be placed on the drivers-side dashboard) these vehicles should

be ticketed $20.
Designate and color-code parking spaces for individuals with disabilities (blue), faculty

(green),

adjuncts (red), staff (yellow)

within the same

parking

lot to share

spaces.

Alternatively, for other campus users in the remaining parking lots such as residential
students (purple) and an alternative color for non-residential students (i.e., which can
change yearly), they will have designated color-coded parking lots with matching decals.

This will provide increased awareness of fair equity in parking spaces and restrictions, as
well as increased communication, and a mechanism for UP/parking services to ticket more
effectively.
SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7 _ 1/05/2018

7

7.

8.

Create a temporary gravel parking lot for residential students by the dorms to free up more
parking spots in all other parking lots. This can only be done, if the lot will be schedule
for a construction conversion to a permanent lot as there are inherent safety and vehicle
risks with gravel lots that are exacerbated in inclement weather conditions.
If a residential temporary parking lot cannot be created, then color-coded spots for
residential parking should either be the furthest parking spots away from each building
within each lot or perhaps they can be restricted to parking lot B. We can further

incentivize residential students to use parking lot B or restricted distant parking by making

their parking decals free (i.e., penalty’s will occur with illegal parking); especially, since

they already incur larger expenses for dorming over non-residential/commuter students.

However, it was determined that parking lot B’s use would be discontinued as of the end

of Fall 2017.
9,

Revamp walkways, trails and/or travel routes from each parking lot to buildings to decrease
challenges with time ambulating and effort in difficulty traversing the topography of the
campus

for disability, elderly, and other populations with medical/health related issues.

The survey ground flag markers can be repurposed or purchased for low cost to map out
such trails with blue signage consistent with disability color-coding. Once created, these
walkways, trails, and/or travel routs can be added to the campus map.
10. When students, faculty, and staff are registering their vehicles for an on-campus parking
permit, the system can have built, a check box that forces registrants to view the campus
parking maps to make them aware of each lot prior to them being able to complete the
purchase and processing of their parking permit. This will intervene early to make all
registrants aware of all parking areas on campus.
11. Campus parking lot maps should also add the exact number of spaces per lot to help all
campus users understand space demands and competition.
12. Perhaps use an outside vendor for the first 4-weeks of each semester to guide all campus
users throughout each parking lot to direct them to where spaces are available. At the very
least, this option should be assessed once to see if it alleviates any frustration from the

campus users.

13. An institutional research analysis should be conducted to correlate the number of students
who withdrew from classes and the number of classes cancelled by faculty this semester

with the parking lot issues experienced this semester. The rational for this is that parking

related student withdrawals and faculty class cancellations may be important databased
measures to consider. Such consequences related to parking needs may have resulted in
early student class absenteeism, frustration with coming to class due to inadequate parking,
inability to meet the demands of their registered courses, and faculty-cancelling classes due
to inaccessible parking. Altogether, these relationships can be used as predictive analytics

to project ongoing concerns, student dropout, transfer, attrition rates that may continue if

the current and expected parking situation is not resolved in a timely manner.

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7

_1/05/2018

8

IV-Parking Task Force Committee Recommendations For Faculty Senate Consideration
That Could Be Implemented For Reasonably Low Costs:
1.

Update all parking signage across the campus (i.e., within and outside of each building).

3.

Update parking permit registration processes to include registrants to check off that
they have reviewed the campus map and parking lot maps understanding where all the

2.

4.

Update the campus map and parking maps to indicate the exact number of available
spots per parking lot.

parking lots are on campus before they can complete and purchase their campus parking
permit.
Ensure that all parking lot areas are well illuminated at night, and wherever possible,
diagrams, signage, or campus maps indicate emergency call stations for perhaps UP
escorts to guide campus users to their vehicles at night. In addition, ensure better

communication with shuttle bus schedules perhaps with an announcement email or text
alert at the beginning, end, and perhaps prior to and following any holidays, breaks, or
inclement weather conditions to increase communications of users.
It is also
recommended

5.

6.

users download

and install the TransLoc

Rider App

to

equally become aware of public transit needs during similar times during the semester.
In the Campus Center parking lot, designate “long-term parking” areas and alternate
“long-term parking” snow removal areas specifically for residential students to park in
the furthest spots within the parking lot. This can be incentivized by allowing
residential students to obtain a different color-coded permit that allows them to park
for free to offset this inconvenience.
Institute a clear and consistent policy for visitors on campus that they cannot park in
the spots closest to buildings or perhaps visitor parking can be limited to the lots by
UP.

7.

that campus

This would be functional, as visitors on campus should receive authorization to

be on campus.
Explore the outside vendor to direct traffic within and across parking lots in order to
reduce parking frustrations and to make campus users aware of all the potential parking

lots on campus for the first 4-weeks of the semester. If this is “one-time-trial” is

8.

successful, then it may be a good proactive solution to implement this system at the
beginning of every Fall and Spring semester to alleviate tensions with new campus
users and projected vs. actual student future growth.
Continue to email and add text alerts students, faculty, adjuncts, and staff to provide

them with parking timely information for: inclement weather that may decrease

available parking, when parking peak times occur each semester, where parking is most
likely available during these peak times, and when these when these parking peak times
have subsided each semester.

9.

Bring to and have an open discussion at Faculty Senate regarding designated handicap,
faculty, adjunct, staff, non-residential student, residential student, and visitor
proportioned parking within each parking lot or specific dedicated parking lots on

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7__

1/05/2018

9

campus. Moreover, designated handicap, faculty, and staff with health/medical issues
should be given priority parking that is closest to the buildings within each parking lot.
Designated and proportioned parking is employed in nearly every college-elsewhere
and would further help to alleviate parking problems caused by a “first-come-firstserve” basis. Designated color coded permits can be created to help identify who can
park where, consistent with the suggested changes in campus parking signage.
10. Other digital parking lot signage, faculty parking lots with ID card assess and draw arm
post, and creating a temporary or permanent residential student parking lot are at
present too costly to consider at this time. However, these suggestions should be
maintained for future discussion on developing the campus parking faculty, staff, and
student needs with involvement of Faculty Governance and the UUP.
11. The new parking lot plans involve an addition of ~288 parking spots to the campus
with a new roadway that directs traffic from the Campus Center to the Student Union
buildings to prevent circling and added congestion on campus. This helps, but may not
be an absolute remedy to the parking challenges faced this semester, nor is it able to
address increased student growth over long term. Thus, the Parking Task Force
Committee points 1 through 7 herein should be considered as it represents all campus
user ongoing and future needs, regardless of the new parking lots construction expected
to be completed by Fall 2018.

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7__

1/05/2018

10

C-Appendix with updated SUNY-OW campus map with parking lot spaces numerated.

Pe

SUNY OLD WESTBURY

R
4?
ACADEMIC BLDG.”
CAMPUS CENTER

CAMPUS CENTER LOT

794 spaces

yy

WOODLANDS
RESIDEN
HALLS ce

STUDENT UNION LOT
137spaces

5

NATURAL SCIENCES
~-

ACADEMIC VILLAGE LOT
265 spaces

[¢™,
;

7 e

. BUR %
CLARK CENTER LOT
360 spaces

A

oN

d
a

4

GATE A

MAIN ENTRANCE
(Rte. 107)

\

SUNY OW Parking Task Force Committee Faculty Senate Recommendations: V7 _ 1/05/2018

11

Re: Parking Task Force committee's report and recommendations.
Andrew Mattson
Wed 1/10/2018 2:32 PM

To Alireza Ebrahimi <ebrahimia@oldwestbury.edu>; Laura Gallagher <gallagherl@oldwestbury.edu>; Lorenz Neuwirth
<neuwirthl@oldwestbury.edu>, Martha Livingston <livingstonm@oldwestoury.edu>; Minna Barrett <barrettm@oldwestbury.edu>;
Steven Siena <sienas@oldwestbury.edu>; Shijian Li <lis@oldwestbury.edu>; Peter Ikeler <ikelerp@oldwestbury.edu>; Yu Lei

<leiy@oldwestbury.edu>; Myong-Hi Kim <kimm@oldwestbury.edu>; Vicki Metz <metzv@oldwestbury.edu>; Shalei Simms

<simmss@oldwestbury.edu>; Evan Rufrano <erufrano@oldwestbury.edu>; Yumi Nicholson <nicholsony@oldwestbury.edu>; Regina
Scarbrough <scarbroughr@oldwestbury.edu>; Emily L. Vezzi <evezzi@oldwestbury.edu>; 74601.1372@compuserve.com
<74601.1372@compuserve.com>; Martin M. Murphy <mmurph32@oldwestbury.edu>; Timothy Mcgarry

<mcgarryt@oldwestbury.edu>; Wenwen Chien <chienw@oldwestbury.edu>; Peter Ikeler <peter.ikeler@outlook.com>; Yogesh More
<morey@oldwestbury.edu>; Katarzyna Platt <plattk@oldwestbury.edu>; Sarah Smith <smithsa@oldwestbury.edu>; Blidi Stemn
<stemnb@oldwestbury.edu>; Alireza Ebrahimi <ebrahimidr@gmail.com>;

CcLaurette Morris <morris|@oldwestbury.edu>; Jennie D'Ambroise <dambroisej@oldwestbury.edu>; William Gillis

<gillisw@oldwestbury.edu>; Maureen Keefe <keefem@oldwestbury.edu>; Maureen Dolan <dolanm@oldwestbury.edu>; Mona Rankin
<rankinm@oldwestbury.edu>; Calvin Butts <buttsc@oldwestbury.edu>;

Hello Members of the FRRC Parking Task Force and Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate,
Here is what the President wishes me to convey to the EC and the Task Force from my meeting with
him yesterday.
He is taking the recommendations from the Parking Task Force into serious consideration in the
discussion of affordable long term solutions.
Briefly here is my summary of what he wishes to communicate to the EC and the Task Force:
¢ Signage: The administration is taking a "hard look" at improving the signage and is investigating
the cost of an upgrade.
¢ Parking Lot B: The administration is hoping to discontinue the use of the temporary parking lot
and shift the resources to other solutions which may include more resources for shuttle service
and for directing traffic to available parking.
¢ Apps: The administration is investigating the cost and efficiency of apps as a tool for parkers.

¢ Designated Parking:

The administration has asked the EC if it is considering opening a

discussion of some form of designated parking as one long-term solution to the parking situation.

The EC will add this topic to our agenda for our next EC meeting and to the agenda of the first FS
meeting of the semester.
Thanks,

Andy Mattson
Interim Chair Faculty Senate
Andrew Mattson
Tenured Instructor

American Studies/Media & Communications
Director Student Media
SUNY at Old Westbury College