THE STATE UNIVERSITY of NEW YORK

A PLAN FOR THE STATE UNIVERSITY
In the spring of 2001, Chancellor King convened a group, including
senior leadership of the State University Plaza, college presidents, and
representatives of the. faculty, to discuss the strategy by which the
University would move to the front ranks of higher education.

This effort

was founded in his State of the University speech in December, 2000, in
which he called for the creation of $5 billion of additional resources over
five years.

The planning group has met three times, with professional

facilitation, and deliberations have included discussions with outside
experts on the future of the economy, technology, and higher education.
The preliminary results of this planning initiative are presented in this
document for further discussion and deliberation.

While that discussion

continues, SUNY leadership will be operationalizing the 10 initiatives
identified, as they seern obviously critical to the future, despite the
final outcome of the strategic planning initiative.
additional input are solicited.

Version2
1-28-02

Your comments and

SUNY Strategic Planning

Who We Are, Vision, Mission, Core Values, and Initiatives
Teaching/Leaming: The State University

The State University of New York is an
intentionally integrated system of postsecondary institutions comprised of a
continuum of learners and scholars that
serves the educational, social and economic needs of the state, the nation, and
the world.

In today’s knowledge-based economy, the
State University of New York is one of the
most effective tools to promote the econ-

omic development in the state.
The State University of New York is unique
and each of its institutions distinguishes
itself in the broader post-secondary marketplace; undertakes an active role in the gen-

eration of new knowledge through research;
serves diverse populations of learners; provides a broad range of programs at different
venues across the state and electronically;

is both financially and physically accessible
through competitive tuition, and its pervasive presence across the breadth of New

York State.

of New York is committed to providing the

highest quality undergraduate, certificate,
professional, graduate, and life-long learning programs.
Research/Scholarship: Our faculty are
leaders in an exciting global community of

academicians and scholars that create and
mould knowledge as well as teach it.
Service: The State University of New York
disseminates knowledge for the public good
and provides public enrichment and cultural

programs.

International Dimension: The State
University of New York seeks to increase
its international ties in order to prepare its
students to face an array of increasingly
complex global challenges and to support

economic development in the State of
New York.

Initiatives:
The State University of New York will be

1.

recognized as the premier comprehensive
system of public higher education in the

2.

world. Its distinctive institutions and leaming environments will each be recognized

Selectively take advantage of opportu-

nities presented to us as a "system."

Develop competitive, diverse, and
predictable streams of state and local
support, including an additional $5

billion in federal and private resources,

as individual leaders in the creation, application and dissemination of knowledge.

and tuition revenue.

invest in facilities, technology, and
infrastructure.
Realize full potential of SUNY Learning
Network and distance learning opportunities to address needs of non-traditional learners, globalization, enhancement

The Mission of the State University is to
excel in teaching, learning, research, and
service in order to serve New York, the

nation andthe world.

to on-campus leaming, expansion of

Core Values:

degrees and course integration, and
incremental revenue.

The State University of New York is committed to excellence and accountability in
all that it does.

Concentrate resources to improve
student success, including leaming
outcomes and retention.
Invest in programs that enhance campus

We believe
¢ in an atmosphere of mutual respect,

excellence and distinctiveness, including
improvements in research and scholarly

responsibility and collegiality;

¢ that a diversity of people and perspectives
enriches the university community;

* that stude ntsfearners are the primary
reason for our existence;

that faculty and their staff colleagues are
fundamental to our success;

° in academic freedom; and

° that a spirit of collaboration across
institutions and within provides seamless
access to students/learners.
Finally, we embrace great expectations

and a commitment to change.

productivity and increased focus on

nationally recognized programs.
Increase business and industry
collaboration.

Invest in SUNY leadership, professionalism and diversity of presidential, staff,
and faculty positions.
Expand international engagements,
including increased opportunities for
students and faculty, joint programs,
and business engagements.
10. Establish a highly positive public
image.

THE STATE UNIVERSITY of NEW YORK

SS

ce

The following Performance Metrics

will be used to measure our progress...
No. 1 Access

The State Universily provides individuals of all racial,

social and economic strata access to higher education
services of the highest quality at affordable levels.
Market Share: Proportional increases in numbers
of New York State high schoo! gracuates enrolled
at the State University.
Affordable Tuition: \n-state tuition and fee levels
near or below the median tuition and fee levels of
public higher education systems in the Northeast
and Mid-Atlantic States.
Student Diversity: Student populations that
appropriately reflect the social, economic, and
geographic diversity of the New York.
No. 2 Research/Scholarship

The State University fosters a community of academicians and scholars that are global leaders in the
discovery and application of knowledge.
Total Sponsored Research Revenues: Increases
in sponsored research revenues that exceed the
increases of comparable public higher education
systems.
Publications per Full-time Faculty: increases in
the number of publications per full-time faculty
member that exceed the increases in the
publication rates of comparable public higher

education systems.

The State University attracts and enrolls students

of superior quality.

Freshman classes

that meet or exceed the five-group selectivity
protile based on SAT/ACT score and high school
average.
SAT/ACT Profile: SAT/ACT median scores and
quartile ranges that exceed the median scores

and quartile ranges of comparable public higher

education systems.

No. 4 Economic Development

State and regional economies of New York
(updated every 3 to 5 years).

Degrees Awarded in Key Discip‘ines:
The number of degrees awarde'| in disciplines
critical to the State economy compared to levels
in previous years, e.g., science, engineering,

business, education, nursing, et.

Business/industry Sponsored E: penditures: Total
business and industry sponsore | expenditures

compared to levels in previous years.

No. 5 International Focus
The State University prepares studt-nts to live and
work in a global economy, and is cc mpetitive in the
global higher education market.
Students Studying Abroad: The \umber of
Students studying abroad compi red to levels
in previous years.

International Student Enrolimen s: The number
of international students enrollin ) compared to
levels in previous years.

No. 6 Distance Learning

The State University is a leader in te application
of distance learning technologies.

Distance Leaming Course Regi: trations:

No. 3 Student Selectivity

Student Selectivity Profile:

Economic Impact: Estimates of ‘he aggregate
economic impact of the State University on the

Total number of registrations in 3LN sponsored
courses compared to levels in p evious years.

Number of Fulltime Faculty Tea hing: Total number of full-time faculty teaching «ne or more SLN
course compared to levels in pre:vious years.

No. 7 Innovation
The State University is an innovato in addressing
key higher education issues, such < s academic preParedness; performance funding; te acher education;
science, math, engineering, and tec hnology education; access and affordability; and s udent transfer

and success.

The State University is a major force in the New York
State economy contributing to business development,
worklorce training, and job creation.

Research Studies: The State Ur iversity uses its

diversity and uniqueness to stucy key issues and

communicate innovative solutio: s to the higher
education community.

“WWW:Suny.edu

SUNY faculty should know about EmpireLink,
SCRLC, and SUNYConnect

#10

sUNY™
NY,

EmpireLink is a pilot project initiated by the New York State Library to

provide New York residents with free access to full-text, online,
commercial databases. It is funded through the federal LSTA (Library
Services and Technology Act) grant program and provides our library with

access to the Gale Group's Health Reference Center-Academic and
Business & Company Resource Center, the Dialog@Car! Basic
Collection of over 200 databases and newspapers, and EbscoHost, an
online database of general interest periodicals.

The South Central Regional Library Council (SCRLC) is one of the
state's nine Reference and Regional Library Resources Systems, known
as the "3 R's Councils." The Council encourages collaboration and
resource sharing, providing the Library with access to the full-text index,
,WilsonSelectPlus. In addition, in collaboration with the WALDO library
consortium, SCRLC enables our library to have preferential pricing for
ProQuest, another full-text index. The Library has also been the
recipient of a "Coordinated Collection Development Grant" funded by the
State Library and administered by SCRLC.

SUNYConnect is a multi-year, university-wide initiative that upon

completion will allow students, faculty, and staff on any campus or at any

location and at any time of the day, access to a set of core digital library

services. The brainchild of SCLD (the SUNY Council of Library Directors),
the program is presently coordinated by a very talented group of librarians

and professionals through the SUNY Office of Library and Information
Services (OLIS).

SUNY Connect provides access to InfoTrac OneFile, a full-text index to
more than 3,000 periodicals.

SUNYConnect provides access to the following FirstSearch databases:
WorldCat; ArticleFirst; GPO; Medline; UnionList; Proceedings;
PapersFirst; NetFirst; ERIC and World Almanac.

SUNYConnect provides access to Ingenta (formerly Carl Uncover)

SUNYConnect provides access to the Literature Resource Center,
Associations Unlimited U.S. National and to the NetLibrary collection

of e-books.

stg}

SUNYConnect provides access to HarpWeek (full-text and page images
of Harpers Weekly during the Civil War years), Multimedia Archives
(images of famous people and things), and ScienceDirect (Elsevier

scientific and technical journals online)

In addition to providing access to the above databases, SUNYConnect
has

begun implementation of a common library management system (the

x Libris ALEPH500) for all SUNY institutions. This system will

amake it much easier for users to identify and borrow library

materials from any SUNY library, but it will happen only if there is

adequate funding with which to implement the project!

SUNY faculty should know about EmpireLink, SCRLC,
and SUNYConnect...
Through the economic power of consortial purchasing,
SUNYConnect, EmpireLink, and SCRLC provide all
these services to your SUNY library at no direct cost or
at a fraction of the actual cost.

This has enabled even

small SUNY libraries to have access to materials and
services that, until recently, were only available
i
i in the
biggest institutions.

These tax-supported programs deserve your praise and support! Please
contact your state and federal representatives and tell them what quality
library service means to you!

Hinkle Library

Alfred State College

Mifpea

57.Vue

=—S=————— OO

SUNY College of Technology