STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLLEGE 

AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, November 17, 2017 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Senators Present: Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Minna Barrett (Immediate Past University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), William Gillis (SAS, Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Evan Rufrano (SGA), Laura Anker (FYE), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Linval Frazer (AC), Roger Mayer (AC), Yu Lei (MMF), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Andrew Hashey (EE), Jillian Nissen (BS), Judy Lloyd (CP), Deepa Jani (EN), Jingyi Song (H&P), Seojung Jung (PY), Amanda Shigihara (SY), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC)



Senators Absent: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Runi Mukherji (Alt. Univ. Senator), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Blidi Stemm (CE), Jasmine Mitchell (AS), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Shijian Li (PH), Eric Hagan (VA), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (ARPT), Llana Barber (LEC), 



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Calvin Butts (President)



Visitors:  Evan Kobolakis, Lorenz Neuwirth, Omar Estrada Torres, Duncan Quarless, Laurette Morris, Ed Bever, Anthony Barbera



DRAFT MINUTES

			

			   I.	Call to Order   12:34pm						

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of Oct 20, 2017

			

			One page 2, in the Provost’s report, the last dark bullet, the 3rd hollow bullet, the words “it seems” should be stricken.

			The minutes are approved by voice vote.

			

			 III.	FS Chair’s Report

			

Important Call for One More At-Large Member for ARPT:  There is one remaining seat on the ARPT committee that must be filled before the end of the semester.  We are looking for any full-time tenure track faculty member from:

SAS: AS, HI, CP, MA, PH, PY, SY, VA, (not from: BS, EL, ML, PEL.) 

SOB: May be from Accounting.

SOE: May be from Childhood or Adolescence (Exceptional is already represented) and, if on a Joint Appointment, the auxiliary department can't be one already represented on ARPT.

Strategic Planning Process:  The final draft of the Strategic Plan will be circulated to the college community before the end of November.

Upcoming Special Election for University Faculty Senate:  The nominations for University Faculty Senator and Alternate Senator will close on Friday 11/17/17.  There are two confirmed nominations for SUNY Senator: Dr. Xavier Marechaux and Dr. Laurette (Laurie) Morris. There is one confirmed nomination for Alternate SUNY Senator: Dr. William (Bill) Gillis.    The Nominations and Elections Committee will be mailing ballots to the eligible voters soon

Executive Committee Meeting with the Provost on 11/9:  The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate met with the Provost to hear about the results of the COACHE Faculty Satisfaction Survey, and to look at the 25 Key benchmarks summary of the survey.  The Provost asked the Faculty Senate to study the results and share with the faculty for further analysis.  The Provost also raised the issue of a renewed examination of faculty compensation.

Executive Committee Meeting with the President on 11/16:  The Executive Committee met with President Butts and Provost Patrick O'Sullivan to discuss the following agenda items:

Strategic Plan (SP) Update by Co-Chairs Anthony Barbara & Duncan Quarless:  The next version of the SP will be distributed ASAP.

Re-establishment of Campus Green Committee and Facilities Planning as college-wide committees. 

M. Dolan comments that a decade ago SUNY established energy and sustainability policies whose mandates included a Green Committee on each campus.  M. Dolan was chair of that committee 2009-2010. As outgoing chair of Faculty Senate, she established campus Green Committee on ad hoc basis - inviting faculty, staff and students to serve. There also used to be a college-wide Facilities Committee that existed for many years, as described in the appendix of faculty bylaws. When the bylaws were revised in 2006, the appendix with college-wide committees was not included. The revision of appendix was left for another iteration of bylaws revision.  

Dr. Butts agrees with the idea of re-establishing a Campus Green Committee as it previously existed and was successful.   

A. Barbera comments that the Green Committee is included in the strategic plan.  Comments will be solicited when the next version is sent out (ASAP).

Size of Advisory Committee on Campus Safety:  The President agreed to decrease the size of the advisory committee, which currently has 24 members.  The reduced size would be minimally ~8.  Details will be determined.

Searches for Administrative Positions:  Recent “acting” appointments will have searches for those positions, possibly within one year.

Discussion of conflict between growth and resources/ability to deliver services and maintain traditional liberal arts small class design.  (Excelsior GAP, TAP GAP, Tuition, State Allocations.) 

What does the President see as necessary administratively and from us to help us adjust so that student services and faculty student ratios keep pace with student body growth? 

			IV.  	President’s Report

			

		The President met with the Executive Committee (EC) yesterday discussing enrollment increases.  During open house we had over 1000 attendees.  We are meeting the challenges, and Dr. Butts commends the faculty for taking on the challenge.  Students are challenged, and they are pressed to achieve.  NY State provides only 23% of operating costs for the college.  Our growth is crucial for continued support.  Our mission is social justice.  Due to loans and the Excelsior program etc. we have the opportunity to serve more students.  We are waiting for the SP and then we can address more concretely our challenges.  We need to make sure we have the resources.  Some additional resources may be coming.  We may be able to obtain more support.  Student success is supported by an additional $300,000, approximately.  We continue to move forward.  Some faculty are retiring.  Dr. Butts is looking forward to younger folks building up their contributions over many years such as the current excellent retiring faculty.  The building of the SP is the best example of shared governance.

		A. Ebrahimi comments that we gave wrong messages about the PGA tour rental.  They went past their rental date of Oct. 1st.   Some don’t want to park in lots given to NYIT.  Students are concerned to get their education, not concerned with parking tickets.  Can you, Dr. Butts, hold off on the parking enforcement?  Dr. Butts responds that students do not have to park illegally and that there is enough space.  At some point because of safety we have to return to using legitimate parking spaces.  Dr. Butts will follow up with Chief Sienna again given the comments of A. Ebrahimi.

				  

			V.	New Business

			

			FRRC Parking Sub-Committee Update (Ali Ebrahimi)

			

				One of the issues this semester and last year as well, is not having adequate spaces. We need to have something for emergency and peak times, with people who can guide drivers where to park, in order to avoid the chaos.  

				The FRRC subcommittee has 18 people and they met recently.  Everyone spoke about problems and solutions.  We should look into technology to look for available spaces – other schools are using parking apps.  

				The Campus Center is designed with parking but NAB and new dorms do not have parking.  Some lots were given to NYIT and they are taking long-term parking.  We wind up with a small space designated for our own campus activities.  Some are not aware of the bus and asked a police officer to give ride to campus from the extra lot.

				Next Tues in Campus Center H311 the parking committee will meet.  Everyone is welcome.

				Hopefully next year when we come back in Sept we will remember the problems.

				The students are our customers; if we ticket them it is like a restaurant ticketing their customers.

				We have a student who may not appear to have disability, but the parking is too far away for him to walk because of his abilities to walk that far.

				We created a building without parking.  We created a building without handicap access.  We should be checking that doors are open for handicap accessibility, but we do not check the doors.  

				 A student comments that more information about available spots is appreciated, since some students may not be aware of the parking near the police station.   We need to provide more info to students.

				Faculty comments on the field parking.  Carports can be used for temporary shelters that could also be used in sports as a spectator shelter.

				Faculty comments that long term parking for residential students is needed.  

				Dr. Butts comments that most of the points brought up are being considered.  We will go back and look at the enforcement for the semester.  Dr. Butts notices that a parking spot app is a good idea, and better communication with students is a good idea – these are new recommendations.  Note that many groups including UUP are meeting on the parking issues.  We are planning to have more parking available for fall next year.

	M. Dolan comments that FRRC subcommittee is looking at some short-term issues, such as policies for residential students, including snow removal and long-term parking. Discussion of possible designated faculty/staff parking should consider the needs of adjunct faculty who teach about half our course sections. Adjuncts often have “just-in-time” work schedule, and need to coordinate between multiple job sites or travel from far away. It may not be realistic for them to go to distant parking lot and wait for shuttle-bus; their tight schedules may not allow for additional travel time. Sensitivity to all campus stakeholders is important.  Regarding ADA, we should be sensitive to those needing accommodation such as parking as close as possible to building entrance.  Some handicaps are not visible. For those with cardio-pulmonary or neuro-muscular conditions, the physical distance from the parking spaces to building can be burdensome.  The steepness of grade along pathway from handicapped parking spaces to NAB is problematic for those in wheelchairs; also for those with other types of medical conditions.

	Dr. Butts states these issues are all being considered.  Thank you for all the comments.

	Faculty comments that the long term parking issue needs a solution.  Improving the shuttle is crucial for reducing cars on campus.

	Faculty comments that the long-term decision-making is crucial here.  The way we go about planning should be more intentional.  This building doesn’t have ADA compliant parking because in order to get certain environmental ratings for the building design, we gave away some of the parking spots.  This is the kind of planning that needs to be done.  The growth of the college is also related.  

	A. Ebrahimi comments that the buses go back and forth with no passenger, yet we teach effectiveness and optimization.

	Faculty comments that students do not prefer to go to distant lots, they prefer to stay near campus center.

	Faculty comments that she has ridden the shuttle since she arrived at OW. The off campus shuttle is used by adjuncts and students. There used to be twice as many buses, but now there are less.  Students used to drive the busses but that has ended.  We never have enough working busses.

	A. Barbera comments on the empty buses.  There is also a culture problem, even at 8am there are folks parking on the side illegally when half of the lot is empty.  Other campuses don’t have close parking, we should not expect to park near the building.

	A. Ebrahimi states that the PGA left so slowly because we did not effectively negotiate with them.  With parking field B we should negotiate with them.

	Faculty comments that in the past, he read college guides where colleges are ranked for quality of life.  We tell people there’s plenty of parking; it’s a quality of life issue.  Not only student life, early alerts and academic quality but also parking – it’s one of many quality of life issues.

	Dr. Butts says quality of life has always been an issue with us.  Because of the explosion of students for a number of reasons that bodes well for OW, there is a deep concern for many issues.  Our quality of life has increased in terms of guns on campus, non-residents in the resident halls, and other issues.  Everything that we have mentioned will be revisited; we do not plan to have such crises in the future.  

	Faculty suggests that parking spots should be put on the curb, but police department says it is unsafe.  We think it is safe, if fire trucks can make it through then it is safe.

			

			UUP Update (Martha Livingston)

			

			M. Livingston requests that only UUP members remain present.  

			Non-UUP members comply with the request and leave the meeting.

			

			

			Note from the Parliamentarian: At this point in time (1:38pm), when some in attendance were asked to leave the meeting (including a student Senator and a non-voting member of the Senate), the business portion of the Faculty Senate meeting ends. No further business or voting occurred. One announcement, not related to UUP Update, is included below. The minutes of the 11/17/17 Faculty Senate meeting do not include the UUP Update. When the meeting was no longer open to the campus community, any notes taken during that period would not be subject to approval by standard Senate practices.      

			

			

			VI.	Announcements

			

				L. Morris announces that in December there will be a charity drive; please bring in any jewelry and other gently used items.

			

			VII.	Adjournment at 2:30pm

			 

			----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

1