STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY 

Faculty Senate Meeting 

Friday, September 11, 2020 

12:30 p.m. - 2:15 p.m. 

ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at: https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive 

Minutes 



Roster of Senators Present:  Mike Kavic (chair), Dana Sinclair (secretary/treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), : Laurette Morris (University Senator) John Estes (At Large Rep to the EC), Runi Mukerhji (At Large Rep to the EC) Bonnie Eannone (professional), Khalif Mettilus( SGA), Laure Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At Large), ,  Blindi Stemm (CE), Camile Jones (CP),),Lee Blackstone (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Edislav Manetovic (LEC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT),  Chris Hagan (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Erin Toolis (PY), Shijian Li (PH), Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young Park (Math & CIS), Patty Harris (LE), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), 



Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean, SOB)



Visitors: Jacob Heller, Patrick Cadet, Carol Quirke, Martha Livingston, Len Davis, Doyoung Park, Ana Martinez, Khalefa Mohamed, Dinorah Martinez, Danielle Collins, Christos Noutsos, Deepa Jani, Curtis Holland, Claidia Marin Andrade, Better Barberi, Kinning Poon, Chelsea Shields-Mas, Catherine Bernard, Cris Notato, Anthony Barbera, Eric Benau, Lisa Payton, Jingyi Song, Patrick O’Brian, Danielle Lee, Ozgur Akgun, Rachel Kalish, Kathleen Veslor, Lisa Chin, Diana Papademas, Ashok Basawapatna, Lorenz Neuwirth, Lisa Whitten, Sara Williamson, Solomon Chak, Shlee Lien, Shalei Simms, Fredd Millan, Renu Balyan, Evan Kobolakis



Roster of Senators Absent: Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), Lisa Payton (AE), Jingyi Song (HP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC),, Roger Mayer (AC), Jani, Deepa (EN), Barber, Llana (AS), Noustos, Christos(BS), Shields-Mas Gal, Chelsea(HP), Park, Do Young(MACS),



I. Call to Order 12:30 

II. Approval of Minutes for May 15 2020 5 minutes (end 12:35)

Minutes accepted as amended 

III. Approval of Senate & Full Faculty Meeting Schedule 5 minutes (end 12:40) 

Approved by unanimous consent 

IV. Chair’s Report 10 minutes (end 12:50)

Outlined general proprieties confronting governance:

Covid 19 and the importance of safety 

Importance of transparency in leadership, budget issues we are facing with New York state and the important role governance plays

Having a plan in place to have great correspondence with the current officer in charge Dr. Miller. 

Sparr, strategic planning committee, needs a bylaws revision. This is a priority item.

Decide the function of a budget committee and he wishes for faculty play a meaningful role in budgetary issues.

There are a number of vacancys on certain committees that need to be filled. In need of a School of education representative for CAP, also have a vacancy for FUAC. There are also a number of vacancies for SPARR.

V. Provost’s Report 15 minutes (end 1:05)

Thanked Andy Mattson for his service and welcomed Mike Kavic the new Chair of Faculty Senate. Also thanked the faculty for their efforts in preparing for a remote semester.

Recognized chancellor award recipients and the efforts of other faculty in terms of teaching publications and new grant funding.

Student survey will go live on Monday just to get some early feedback to see how things are going 

Requests that faculty continue to track student attendance. Student may have technology needs that may still need to be addressed so please be aware.

Enrollment targets have been exceeded. We are twelve students away from the goal. The collective effort does not go unnoticed.

There have also been some faculty hires in the school of business.

Somewhere beyond 35% of our new of faculty hired are either from underrepresented minority groups are women in STEM fields.

There were six micro credentials that came through that process and were approved by cap and by the Senate. I celebrate also the fact that there are now three curricular degree programs that are at SUNY, that also came out of this past year. Also in the midst of COVID-19, we're having some technology related advancements that have caused some that have allowed us to upgrade some of the classrooms and the NAB in anticipation of some of what instruction might look like in the spring.

Anthony Barbera: Middle states update team chair has been appointed. She is Dr. Darlene Smith, and she is the former Provost of the University of Baltimore. Three important dates were decided upon during the last meeting with her. November 18th and November 19th will be here preliminary visit and it will be virtual. Dr. Smith will be given a copy of the self study.

Second visit will be in the spring after the finalize self study is sent off. It will be a team visit of about 10 people March 21st to March 24. As of right now it will be on campus.

Also acknowledges the efforts of the Registrar’s office for getting students enrolled on time.

Jacob Heller: made a point to mention academic assessment and the changed in the department as well as the introduction of Interfolio which is an entirely new online system for faculty reappointment, promotion and tenure. which was selected by a joint task force with faculty senate representatives, union representatives, president's office, HR, everybody involved in the process was part of the selection. We expect the system to go live by October 1. Jacob Heller is the contact person if you have any questions.

VI. University Faculty Senate Report 15 minutes (end: 1:20)

first plenary session, the fall plenary is actually in mid October,

One of the bigger issues is our new Sunni Chancellor, who was basically appointed instead of determined through a search. A statement went out expressing discontent.

a statement on racial equity and social justice was sent out or produced through the University Faculty Senate Executive Committee 

“Coping with Covid” on SUNY campuses

VII. UUP Report 5 minutes (end: 1:25) 

Announced dates of meetings that are going to be virtual and during common hour unless stated otherwise. First meeting will be on September 30th

Joining a pre-retirement workshop this coming Tuesday.

Department reps. We must identify a representative from each department

Adjunct specific workshop taking place on the 24th of September

Understanding the SUNY tenure clock memorandum: anybody in reappointment and pre tenure mode would have their clock is extended for one year. So that's the automatic default setting.

The telecommuting agreement between the governor and all state employees is due to expire on October 2 hoping it will be extended till the end of the year.

Talked about the regulations that we are looking into creating for those who have to come to campus but the consensus is, if you do not have to come, do not.

VIII. Nomination and Election of EC members 10 minutes (end 1:35) 

Any full time faculty member of the faculty senate can run and serve

                  ○ Vice-Chair 

Jennie D’ambroise was nominated. Nomination was seconded.  She accepted and was elected by unanimous consent

                  ○ Secretary-Treasurer 

Dana Sinclair was nominated. Nomination was seconded. She accepted and  was elected by unanimous consent

○ At-Large Representative to the EC 

Two people were nominated John Estes and Runi Mukherji

A vote was taken launched via zoom. Only senators can vote. Each candidate introduced themselves while the vote was being taken.

IX. Committee Reports: 20 minutes (end 1:55)

               ○ SPAAR - Barbera & Mattson, Kavic & Kinane. 5 minutes 

Thanks all division heads who worked so hard to assess the implementation of the strategic plan

Everyone has a copy of the SPAAR Report. A couple of things in the report were highlighted 

                 ○ CAP - Yamamoto 5 minutes 

throughout the year CAP reviewed two five year reviews. Also reviewed six micro credential proposals, and one minor proposals. All proposals went through.

Major activity of CAP last year was  the line request reviews

                 ○ TLRC - Hagan 5 minutes 

Report was attached and distributed

                 ○ Green Committee - Dolan 5 minutes 

Green committee report on hold due to technical difficulty

X. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements 20 minutes (end 2:15)

XI. Adjournment