Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                          Friday, November 13, 2015


Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding),  Thomas Lilly (Vice
Chair), Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian), Minna Barrett (University
Senator), Kathie Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Kathleen Greenberg (At Large
Rep. to EC/Senator at Large), Lingxiang Li (Senator At-Large), Manya
Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Shalei
Simms (Univ. Senator Alternate), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo
McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Laura Anker (First
Year Experience), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Yu Lei (MMF), Shaadi Mehr
(Biological Studies), William Gillis (Biological Studies), Young-Joo Kim
(Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf (English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Ashlee Lien
(Psychology), Sarah Smith ( Public Health),  Laura Limonic (Sociology),
Robert Gero (Visual Arts), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLR comm.), Jacob Heller (FRR
Com.).

Senators excused: Yogesh More (Secretary/Treasurer/Math/CIS), Lauren
Foxworth (Exceptional Education).

Senators Absent: Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large Large), Jeffrey D’Amico
(Accounting), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Blidi Stemn
(Childhood Education), Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages), Chris Hobson
(ARPT Comm.), Frank Sanacory (CAP Comm.), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC),

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Calvin Butts (President), Patrick
O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Dr. Wayne Edwards (VP Student Affairs), Jason Zhu
(Dean, SOB).

Visitors Present: Ed Bever ( H&P), Dr. Wayne Edwarda (VP for Students
Affairs), Omar Estrada Torres (Dean of Students), Amanda Frisken (GEC),
Peter Ikeler (Sociology), Anissa Lynch (SOE), Jerilyn Marinan (Career
Planning), Lorenz Neuwirth (Psychology), Cristina Notaro (Assistant Dean,
SAS).

   I. Call to Order: 12:38 pm

  II. Approval of the Minutes of October 30, 2010

      Faculty Senate approved the minutes unanimously by voice vote after
      some signaled corrections.


 III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report

      On October 30th Provost O’Sullivan informed the Senate that the
      President is supporting the Salary Compression Resolution that was
      initiated by Jacob Heller and unanimously approved by the Senate. This
      week Dr. O’Sullivan and I met to review what the resolution stated
      about creating a task group formed with members from the faculty and
      administration. We agreed to establish a committee of five members,
      with three faculty and two administrators. We sent out letters of
      invitation this morning and have received one response. Our goal is to
      have a recommendation by February 25.


      Dr. Heller, the chair of the Scantron Committee, sent me a copy of the
      final contract. I gave it to Dr. O’Sullivan, who gave it to Len Davis.
      It is our hope that we will have it signed by December 3rd, which is
      the deadline.


      We will meet with RABC one more time before the end of the semester to
      discuss SUNY Excels and how that connects with the Strategic Plan.


      We held the LGBT teacher group conference on campus. More than one
      hundred educators came from all over Long Island. There was a keynote
      address by Kevin Jennings, who is the Assistant Deputy Secretary of
      Education for the Obama administration. At the end of the conference
      the brother of Taylor Clemente talked about the Anti-Bullying
      Foundation and cyber bullying.


      We also held a well-attended conference at the McGuire Theater about
      the role of the civil rights movement fifty years ago. Les Payne was
      the moderator. Bill Moyers and Congressman John Lewis discussed the
      history and future of race in American society. Mr. Moyers said
      America needs a revolution of ideas to overcome differences, and
      Congressman Lewis said when you loose hope you give up.


IV.         President’s Report


      Thanks to all who could be at yesterday’s conference. We had a great
      time and it was a good affair for the college. Both John Lewis and
      Bill Moyers were happy to be here, particularly Bill Moyers because of
      the relation of his wife with the college. I want to thank the entire
      faculty of the college for all the work done and to encourage them to
      stay involved to attract more students to our campus. We have a gala
      planned for May.


      I was happy to hear the chair say that you have been working with the
      Provost on the five person committee. I am interested in ensuring that
      people earn the living that you deserve, particularly those who have
      been working at the campus for so long. We will continue to work with
      you in this committee to address this problem of compression and any
      other issue around salary.


            We are trying to build some faculty housing. We cannot attract
      the faculty we need because of how much it costs to live on Long
      Island.


      Based on the Mid-Year Review of the summer and fall semesters there is
      a potential short fall of $1.4 million. That can go up or down based
      on the actual enrollment for the spring. We are considering steps to
      minimize the impact. Among the items we are considering are freezing
      or deferring non-critical hiring, and limiting or suspending overtime.
      We hope not to impact greatly the Strategic Initiative we have under
      way. Academic Affairs, Enrollment Services and Students Affairs are
      working to limit the attrition of students from the fall to the
      spring. I ask faculty to do all you can in the area of advising. Our
      students often say one of the characteristics they love about Old
      Westbury is the faculty and students interaction. We are working on
      student retention. We need to focus our attention on student retention
      and advising, and to encourage departments and students to work
      together so we can give students the most exact information they can
      have about what it takes to graduate in four years. When I was in a
      seminar talking to students at the Residence Hall a couple of students
      said they got advising from one faculty member that was different from
      another. That is a problem. One of them pointed out a faculty member
      said they needed so many credits and then another faculty member said
      they needed even more credits. We also need to focus our attention on
      discipline and the seriousness that students must have in the
      classroom. Set high standards and encourage students to study and
      stand up to those standards. That will help us with retention along
      with the advising. Let us know if students disrespect you in class,
      because you do not have to take it.


      We will have the SUNY Excels document to the chair by the first day of
      next week. I want to thank the members of the faculty working on RABPC
      for this effort on crafting the ideas and programs that were included
      in the SUNY Excels performance improvement plan sent to the Chancellor
      last month. Some of the highlights include an increase in hiring
      faculty with a focus on Computer Information Sciences, Biology and
      Public Health. When I said earlier that to meet that budget gap we may
      defer or freeze hiring, we are trying our best not to do it in these
      areas, because they are primary to the things that are important.
      Space issues are already limiting what we can achieve in student
      enrollment and research success, so part of our submission in the SUNY
      Excels performance improvement plan is funding for an expansion and
      renovation of the Natural Sciences Building.
      An investment in data on campus will help improve planning and
      decision making. We have some good research going on now, but it is
      not enough. We need to know why students are leaving. We need to
      know more about our numbers and analyze them even more.


      We are seeking approval for a digital campus proposal. We are
      seeking $20 million in funding for variety of programs. Mr. Davis
      and Mr. Kobolakis will talk more about that. You should have copies
      of the plan next week.


      The Residential Hall Program on September 27th coordinated by Dr.
      Edwards was great. I hope more of you will get involved. It will
      make a huge difference to the students.


      The College Gala will be on Tuesday, May 20th at the Fox Hollow
      Country Club. I thank Dr. Madurka for all she has done.


      Yesterday was an excellent day and I am grateful for the
      participation of everybody in the conference. I think John Lewis
      and Bill Moyers enjoyed it more than we did.

V.    Provost’s Report

      I have distributed two handouts for faculty review about retention and
      about reevaluating teaching evaluations.


      We are looking at implementing the Scantron process, which will
      contribute to the development of more effective teaching and the
      evaluation of faculty for administration purposes.


      The third item I distributed is a profile of graduation 2014-15. It is
      a one page document for you to read at your leisure.


      The last item concerns questions for the academic departments that I
      distributed at a Provost Council meeting on October 6th. The questions
      in this document were for the departments to answer in a month. I have
      received many of these reports already, but I have not received them
      from Psychology, Public Health, Chemistry, American Studies, Biology,
      PEL, English and Management, Marketing. I have learned a good deal
      from those reports that have been submitted. One thing I did not know
      was how often departments change the criteria for graduation. That can
      become a real problem when you have students who came in 2011 or 2013
      with one set of rules, and others who came in 2014 with another set of
      rules. Here is the elaboration of the rule: If students come in under
      a rule in 2012-13 and the criteria is made more difficult, those who
      came in that time do not have to follow that. If the rules are made
      easier in future years, they apply to everybody. If they become more
      difficult, they do not apply to those who came in the earlier years.
      That has been followed for decades at Old Westbury, and it is stated
      by SUNY.


      We know sometimes students leave with one hundred fifty credits. Some
      advisors said students do not see the light at the end of the tunnel,
      so they transfer. Given our enrollment issues, every department should
      look to the obstacles embedded in every curriculum that contribute to
      having students spending another semester. The Dean has the authority
      to wave those last requirements if a student has reached one hundred
      twenty credits, met the major requirements, and just has one or two
      more courses left. That is perfectly fine.


      We need to be sensitive to the cost associated with having students
      here longer than the time they need. This is not an implication that
      you should change the criteria for your major or that you should waive
      crucial standards, but to be practical and sensitive to the notion
      those students should graduate on time.




      Dr. O’Sullivan then introduced Dr. Bever. Dr. Bever said we have
      finally been able to hire an instructional designer. Her office is in
      the NAB. You can call her and make an appointment. Her primary
      responsibility is to support instructional development involving
      technology. She is taking over the training of faculty for starting a
      new modality doing online courses. In addition, she is running a
      workshop in common hours on Mondays and Thursdays. She is there to
      support the integration of things like discussion boards and self-
      tests into traditional classes. She is going to implement some
      programs to help students with orientation and workshops in the first
      week of classes.




VI.    Old Business

      Dr. Minna Barrett addressed:
    • Family Leave Resolution
    • Academic Freedom Resolution
    • Social Justice Resolution.

   The Family Leave Resolution should be relatively easy for us because we
   initiated it here. It was unanimously approved by the University Faculty
   Senate at the spring meeting and now is circulating throughout all the
   campuses. The more support we have at the campus level the better.


   Concerning the Academic Freedom Resolution, there have been a number of
   challenges to academic freedom, particularly with online education. Read
   and consider it. I think we should support it.


   We are voting today to take the Social Justice Resolution off the table.
   We are not voting on it yet. We tabled it two years ago. We need to vote
   to take it off the table. On December 4th we will discuss it to bring it
   to a vote.


   A motion to take the Social Justice Resolution off the table was seconded
   and passed by a vote of 22 for, 1 opposed and 0 abstentions.


VII.    New Business

   Student Life Committee Annual Report (John Friedman)


   I completed my 2 year term as co-chair for SLC at the end of the spring
   semester. I want to thank the other committee members, including David
   Glodstein, Rose Muzio and Niev Duffy. Stephanie Schneider was co-chair
   with me and regrets not being here because she has to be in Albany.


   We had at least half a dozen meetings during the 2014-15 Academic Year
   and we listened to students’ concerns. As a new approach, we invited the
   administration and faculty members to participate in the meetings so
   students could have a face to face meeting to express their concerns. In
   all our meetings we had students participating, especially from the SGA.
   Some of the main issues that came up included problems with Financial
   Aid, the Bursar and Registrar. Specifically, students said they have
   problems communicating with those departments by phone, which is very
   frustrating for the students because they need to leave their jobs to
   come to those offices. We had Susan Anderson from Bursar come to speak to
   us. Students said they are often removed from classes because of Bursar
   problems. They then need to re-register. Another student said that her
   Financial Aid was late being transferred to her account. Pat Smith met
   with students to answer their concerns, including a lack of classes
   available each semester in certain departments. Pat said that this is a
   department and a college issue, not a Registrar issue. In the next
   meeting, Usama Shaik, former Director of Residential Life and current
   Assistant V.P. of Student Affairs, was present. Students asked him about
   the limited weekend hours at the Student Union. Other concerns included
   bookstore prices and complaints that the food is terrible. There were
   concerns about the lack of programming for residential students. Shaik
   said the one reason that most students stay home on weekends is that they
   have jobs near their homes. He added that each RA is responsible for at
   least five programs in each semester. He talked with seven bus lines to
   increase transportation to the city because one of the ongoing complaints
   is that students are having problems getting into the city. Residence
   Halls issues were also discussed.


   Although some changes were implemented, we are disappointed that the
   problems with the Bursar and Financial Aid offices still remain. A
   conclusion reached by the committee is that several college policies
   could be re-examined. It is not only administration and faculty but
   students that need to be involved in some way to reach solutions.


   General Education Annual Report (Amanda Frisken)


   We have eleven faculty members on this committee and seven administrative
   members. Our main business last year was to resolve some inconsistencies
   between the College level and the SUNY level. We are still working on
   those issues so that what the transferring students see is what they get.


   One of the projects from last year that we still are working on is to
   streamline course submission and to make it clear to departments how they
   can submit courses for approval. We are hoping to expand our lower
   division offerings to get students exited about liberal arts education
   that centers on analysis, thinking and reading.


   Another area Gen Ed is engaged in is assessment of courses. You may hear
   from domain representatives asking you for syllabi. They review them to
   see if our Gen Ed learning outcomes are listed. Another kind of
   assessment we do is learning outcome assessment. That is more
   complicated. You may collect one assignment that assesses the extent to
   which students meet the outcome. We do it in different cycles, different
   domains, and different years. This year we are planning to do critical
   thinking in every domain. You will hear from the domain representative
   asking you to participate in an assignment. It may be an essay. In
   sciences and in math it is possible to measure critical thinking skills
   in many ways using different tools.


   This committee sees itself as guardian of our liberal education
   curriculum.


VIII.     Announcements


    • Dr. Barrett reported that during the last year the Governor mandated
      that every state university has to offer opportunities for applied
      learning. The Applied Learning Steering Committee is finalizing the
      guidelines for what applied learning is. We are very lucky because we
      have a lot of it. This is an opportunity for us to showcase what we
      have because there is money coming for it. This week you will get
      informative material regarding this.


    • Dr. Edwards addressed an issue that was raised in the Advisory
      Committee on Campus Safety which he co-chairs with the Chief of
      Police. The committee is made up of eight staff members appointed by
      Dr. Butts, eight faculty appointed by the Faculty Senate, and a
      student appointed by the SGA. The issue concerns the safety of
      walkways. He introduced the Director of Facilities, who said that work
      on the walkways will be done after commencement, and that almost all
      the lighting has been repaired. There is temporary lighting around the
      library, which will also be repaired.


    • Dr. Heller reported that next week the Bylaws Committee will be
      sending out a document with the changes for all standing committees.
      The next step is for the faculty Senate to review them and vote on
      them. The material will be distributed with the old Bylaws with marks
      showing the changes. A lot of things have been deleted and moved
      around.


      Dr. Heller also said that the Faculty Rights and Responsibilities
      Committee is requesting that the Senate approve a temporary
      appointment by the Senate Chair to serve for a particular grievance.
      All the people on the Committee are untenured, and Dr. Heller needed
      to recuse himself from this case. There is only one tenured member
      serving on this case. He made a motion to allow that kind of temporary
      appointment, which was approved unanimously by voice vote.

    • Dr. Yamamoto from TLRC informed the Senate that a report concerning
      Google and Microsoft e mail  will be sent to the faculty. No change is
      imminent. After getting faculty input, the Committee will discuss the
      issue further and report back. Dr. Yamamoto further reported that the
      first OWLS talk will be made available on line. A second OWLS talk is
      planned in which Dr. Heller will discuss attrition.


  IV. Adjournment at 2:15pm, November 13, 2015.