Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Spring 2019 Report
Submitted by Joanne Spadaro
May 10, 2019
I. Membership
The current membership of the Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee consists of four fulltime, tenure-stream faculty (three of whom have taught one or more OER courses) the OER Librarian
(tenured), a full-time, tenure-streamed faculty librarian with knowledge of OER, a student
representative designated by the SGA Executive Board, the College’s Instructional Designer, and the OER
liaison for Academic Affairs. Veronika Dolar and Joanne Spadaro serve as co-chairs, and Christa
DeVirgilio is the secretary.
Members
Zulema Cabail (joined April 2019)
Jillian Crocker (term ends June 15, 2019)
Christa DeVirgilio
Veronika Dolar
Svetlana Jovic (joined April 2019)
Jessica T. Smith
Ex-Officio Members
Chandra Shehigian (non-voting member)
Joanne Spadaro (voting member)
Duncan Quarless (non-voting member)

Departments
Biology
Sociology
Library
Politics, Economics & Law
Psychology
Student Government Association
Information Technology, Instructional Designer
Library, OER Librarian
Academic Affairs

II. Activities
Meetings
During spring 2019, the Committee held monthly face-to-face meetings, and online discussions. Three
members of the Committee (C. DeVirgilio, D. Quarless, J. Spadaro,) also serve as Leads for SUNY’s OER
funded initiatives on campus and attend SUNY OER Services online meetings twice monthly.
Two-Year Snapshot of OER Courses @ Old Westbury
The number of OER course sections at SUNY Old Westbury in 2018/19 increased 78.6% from the prior
academic year.
Academic Year
2018/19
2017/18

Course Sections
25 sections
14 sections

It is important to note that several faculty members were already teaching with open educational
resources before the SUNY funded incentive stipends were available, and before we started to track
these courses in fall 2017. A course section is designated as OER if more than 50% of the assigned
course materials is comprised of open educational resources. This designation is on a semester-bysemester basis, and is at the discretion of instructors/departments.
New OER Course Development Awards
The Committee received, reviewed, and approved three new OER course proposals from faculty
adopting OER course materials in spring 2019. Each of the applicants (PY-1, PEL-1, BS-1) was awarded a
$500 stipend, disbursed at the end of the semester the course is taught.
1|Page

Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Spring 2019 Report
Additional Awards
Two SGA members were awarded a $400 stipend each for attending the CUNY/SUNY OER Showcase
conference at Baruch College in March 2019, and for presenting on the conference and open
educational resources to Old Westbury students.
The Director of the Math Redesign Lab (MRL) was awarded a $1000 stipend for conducting background
research and formative assessment of OER interactive platforms for the MRL. This work will culminate
in the training of 1 adjunct faculty member working in the MRL and the preparatory work to pilot one
course section of MA 1010. This work represents a formative implementation of OER into the math
proficiency curriculum of our Liberal Education Program.
Registered Courses
The Committee also reviewed OER course syllabi and course materials (for funded and unfunded
courses) to determine whether they meet SUNY’s requirements to be labeled as an OER course and
identified with the OER attribute in the course registration system. The following tables represents the
number of courses by departments that were registered in our system and with SUNY for winter and
spring 2019.
Winter 2019
Departments
Courses
PE
1
Spring 2019
Departments
Courses
BS
1
HI
1
PE
6
PY
2
SY
2
Draft OER Sustainability Plan
All SUNY campuses that received OER funds for 2018/19 were required to submit a draft OER
Sustainability Plan by April 15th. Our campus’ report was completed by the Committee and submitted to
SUNY on time. The report served as both a planning guide and self-assessment on the OER program at
Old Westbury.
OpenEd Week 2019 (Student Outreach)
The Committee and SGA co-sponsored two events for students in recognition of Open Education Week
(March 4-8). The events included an OER information table, and a "#textbookbrokeOW" campaign to
raise awareness about the high cost of textbooks and how it impacts the lives of students. SGA
representatives organized and tended an information table in the Campus Center Atrium. The
#textbookbrokeOW campaign involved interactive panel boards in the NAB where students shared their
perceptions of the impact of textbook costs on their personal finances.
Creative Commons: The Basics
On April 30th, J. Spadaro provided a one-hour workshop on Creative Commons copyright licensing for
faculty and staff. The workshop will be offered again in fall 2019.

2|Page

Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Spring 2019 Report
III. Future Planning




Survey faculty teaching new spring 2019 OER courses
Provide workshops on teaching with open educational resources and open licensing for faculty
Work with SGA to raise student awareness of OER courses and how to register for them

3|Page