Report on the Fall 2004 Plenary Meeting of the University Faculty Senate

Submitted by Maureen Dolan, University Senator, 11/12/04

The UFS Fall Plenary meeting was held at the SUNY Maritime Campus, October 21-23, 2004. In

addition to the regular reports (by UFS Senate President, UFS Executive Committee, UFS Standing
Committees, and Sharing of Concerns by campuses in each sector), Chancellor King and Provost
Salins addressed the University Faculty Senate and responded to a number of questions on Mission

Review II and the new Budget Allocation Process (BAP). The Senate was also addressed by Trustee

John Cremins, the newly appointed Chair of the Board of Trustees Committee on Academic

Standards. Updates on the SUNY Faculty Development Initiative and on SUNY-wide campus-

based assessment were provided by the Assistant Provost for University Assessment and Academic
Initiatives, Dr. Patricia Francis.

The major issue throughout the Fall Plenary meeting was Mission Review II, in particular, the
appropriate role of campus governance throughout all phases of the process, and the implications
for SUNY campuses of the new BAP. Several important resolutions emerged from this Plenary: (i)
Campus Governance Leaders (CGLs) resolution on the role of campus governance in MRII; (ii)
UFS Governance Committee resolution on the role of campus governance in academic
reorganization; and (iii) Governance Committee resolution providing for site visitation (to
candidate’s place of employment) during the search process for campus presidents. These
resolutions received unanimous endorsement by the University Faculty Senate and are attached to

this report. Also attached is Executive Summary of Report of the Provost's Advisory Task Force on
Faculty Development.
Summary of major agenda items:
Report by UFS President, Joseph Hildreth

Reaffirmed his goal of seamless communication between SUNY and the campuses, with a return
loop of communication from SUNY which addresses the concerns of campuses. Cited the good
progress made in recent years [through the University Faculty Senate] for effective faculty input to
decision making in SUNY. Announced new USF website at www.suny.edu/facultysenate. This is to

include a “President’s Corner” of news and key issues, Resolutions passed in last few years, pages
for Standing Committees and the Executive Committee, the Faculty Senate Bulletin, Bylaws, and
perhaps excerpts from major reports generated by the Senate.

Hildreth summarized the new BAP, which will distribute $1 Billion from the $8 Billion All Funds

Budget. Whereas the 1998 BAP allocated funds according to a campus-cost approach, the new BAP
will allocate to campuses based on their proportionate share of available SUNY funds in six major
categories of undergraduate, graduate 1 and 2 (masters and doctoral), professional, research, and
special/earmarks. He said the new BAP was intended to be fair, simple, transparent and predictable.
Hildreth indicated there was a spectrum across campuses, from satisfactory to unsatisfactory, of

faculty governance input to Mission Review II. He said there should be significant involvement of

faculty throughout all phases of MRII, beginning with the planning and drafting of the Guidance

Document, especially the areas dealing with admissions selectivity, campus distinctiveness, faculty
quality and direction of the institution.

Six courses for Teacher Education program have been approved for the Community Colleges (four
of which are for general education). So far two Community Colleges have been approved to offer
Teacher Education; eight more are awaiting approval. John Lombardi will be offering a workshop
on national benchmarks, in particular, benchmarks for the “Honor’s” designation of academic
programs and colleges.
Joe announced that SUNY is preparing a response to address the Nursing Shortage in NYS. Also,
he categorized as “‘a very positive sign” the replacement of Trustee Candace DeRussy by Fr. John
Cremins as Chair of the Academic Standards Committee. (In his remarks to the Senate, Cremins

termed the faculty the “mortar and the bricks” that hold SUNY together. He said he was optimistic
about the future direction of the Academic Standard Committee, which he saw as undergoing
“monumental change”.)
Report by Provost Peter Salins
The Provost focused most of his remarks on the new BAP and Mission Review II. He said that

faculty governance must be deeply involved in a meaningful way in Mission Review II. Finance
issues and facilities issues must be integrated with academic planning in Mission Review. The

campus Guidance Documents are due to SUNY by December 15"; campus site visits will occur

through the Spring and Fall of 2005. This will form the framework for a new set of MOUs.

Provost Salins said half the students in NYS are taught by teachers who graduated from Teacher

Education programs in SUNY. He cited the need for more teachers in mathematics and science,
special education and foreign languages - especially in poor areas of the state. The higher education
community can take a lead in helping public schools to become more effective.
The SUNY Master Plan is available online. This integrates the initiatives of Provost’s Office with
the rest of System Administration, and provides a planning framework for the 64 campus system.

The Provost’s Faculty Development Initiative is in partnership with the University Faculty Senate.

The report of Task Force shares best practices in faculty development in SUNY and nationwide.

Speaking on the academic preparedness of students when they enter SUNY, he said that recent ACT

report finds that students are not better prepared than ten years ago. Several SUNY campuses have

volunteered to have Provost’s office review the transcripts of their incoming students. Salins said
that SUNY should be more involved in the preparation of students prior to their enrollment.

In response to questions on Mission Review II, Provost Salins said that the involvement of faculty

governance in MRII is a more strenuous requirement than the first Mission Review.

He said effective planning must be legitimate, and that meaningful involvement of governance was

needed to build a legitimate process. The entire community must work together to reach agreement
on goals.

Provost Salins gave an overview of the new BAP, which is still under development. (SUNY Vice

Chancellor for Finance and Business, Brian Stenson, had been scheduled to provide an update on
the budget and BAP, but was unable to attend Fall Plenary.) A major problem with the old BAP,
according to Salins, was that it did not connect the funding actually available to SUNY, with the

allocations driven by the BAP cost-based formula. The new BAP is tied to a performance variable

rather than to reimbursement [of expenses]. Campuses must be fiscally well-managed.

About 2-3% of SUNY’s budget will be allocated as a “reward” to campuses that have met specific
performance objectives. The details are yet to be worked out, but performance measures would

likely include retention and graduation rates, increased sponsored research, and a metric to measure
general progress of a campus towards achieving the goals of its MOU.

In the case of residence halls, previously all revenues from dormitories were pooled; bettermanaged campuses to some degree were supporting poorly managed campuses. Under selfsufficiency, each campus is responsible for the management of its own residence halls.
Salins reinforced that, under BAP (both old and new), each campus gets a lump sum from SUNY.
What each decides to do with these funds is a matter of internal decision making.

The Provost cited the report from the Advisory Task Force on Faculty Development (2002-2004).
This group was charged with developing strategies for improving ongoing scholarly and
professional development, including: improved teaching and research; community and professional
service; administration and

governance skills; and leadership in SUNY. The Task Force developed

strategies for meaningful recognition and reward, and strategies to address the need for sufficient
additional resources in support of faculty development. The four-page Executive Summary is
attached to this report.
Sharing of Concerns (Comprehensive Colleges)

For most campuses in this sector, major issues were the lack of meaningful participation of faculty
governance in Mission Review II, and lack of effective consultation especially as regards academic
reorganization. There was also general concern about increased reliance on non-tenure track and
adjunct faculty, and the associated impact on students and institutional quality. There was also

general concern about the poor compensation of SUNY faculty (e.g., as compared to public school
teachers); and the impacts of larger class size on retention, on academic quality, and on time
available for scholarship and professional development.

Concern was raised about community colleges’ development of Teacher Education Programs, and

the impact on the Comprehensive Colleges of SUNY’s approval of 4-year degree programs for the

Colleges of Technology. All sectors raised concerns about the new BAP and its impacts, for

example, possibie impacts on the funding of undergraduate education, and on the funding of pure
vs. applied research. (Note: the Colleges of Technology sector indicated that the new BAP may
actually benefit them, as they move towards four-year degree programs.)

The Student Assembly president, Stephanie Gross, reported that they are developing their own
tuition plan, which calls for tuition to be locked in for an incoming SUNY student for up to 5-6
years - and not the four years stated in Chancellor King’s policy recommendation.
Remarks by Chancellor King

The Chancellor answered questions from the floor regarding the new BAP and Mission Review II.

He said that University Centers, Specialized Colleges and doctoral/medical campuses tend to be
more dependent on state aid; Comprehensive Colleges and Colleges of Technology tend to more
dependent on tuition revenue. The old BAP model implicitly assumed increased funding for
increased enrollment. That assumption is no longer valid. He said the new BAP will be fair,

predictable and transparent; it will not create financial expectations that cannot be met. In response
to a question about the impact of new BAP on undergraduate education (since this is represented by
one of only six “baskets” in the new BAP model), King said it is the intention to support
undergraduate education as much as possible.
There were many questions on Mission Review II. The Chancellor said that Mission Review II is
expected to flow from the initial round of mission review, and to be integrated by campuses with

resource planning, facilities planning and other institutional strategic and long-term planning. The
MOU is used as a template in the five-year evaluation of campus presidents; presidents are to be
held accountable for achieving the goals identified in their campus’ MOU.
The Chancellor said he was surprised to hear that some campuses had not directly involved faculty
in the drafting of the MRII Guidance Document. He said he would contact campus presidents and

encourage them to directly involve faculty governance in the Mission Review II process.
Committee Report Highlights

Awards Committee:

Established a Medallion for Distinguished Professor,

Announced $30,000 available for Conversations in the Disciplines;
Developing criteria for the UFS awards endowed by Distinguished Service Professor

Ram Chugh: Outstanding Service Award, UFS Senator Emeritus Award (this year’s

recipient Vince Aceto, UFS President 1995-1999), and UFS Friend of the Senate Award
(this year’s recipient, Dick Miller, former SUNY Vice Chancellor and University

Senator representing System Administration).

Governance Committee:
Presented a Resolution to establish site visitation teams in the selection of campus
presidents, and a Resolution on the involvement of campus governance in academic
Teorganization. Both Resolutions passed unanimously and are attached.
Operations Committee:

Summarized ongoing projects:

e

e
©

analysis of perceived increase in administrative positions relative to faculty in SUNY;

study on increased use of adjunct faculty and impacts on retention;
energy whitepaper: challenges and opportunities related to energy efficiency and energy
conservation in SUNY.

Undergraduate Committee:
e°
Working on Guide for Internships (best practices);
e
Planning a Spring 2006 Symposium on Copyright as it pertains to academia.

Campus Governance Leaders:

Presented Resolution on the involvement of established campus governance structures in all

phases of Mission Review II, consistent with public statements from the SUNY Chancellor
and Provost. Resolution passed unanimously.