STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, February 19, 2021

12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive







Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), John Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Llana Barber (AS), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemn (CE), Deepa Jani (EN), Laura Anker (FY), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Renu Balyan (MACS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Sarah Smith (PH), Erik Benau (PY), Curtis Holland (SY), Catherine Bernard (VA), Jillian Crocker (ARPT), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Eric Hagan (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA), Rose Muzio (PEL)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Timothy Sams (President), Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Wayne Edwards (VPAdv), Frank Pizzardi (VPEnroll), Usama Shaikh (VPSA), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE)



Visitors: Evan Kobolakis, Frank Sanacory, Lisa Lewin, Dinorah Martinez, Anthony Barbera, Lisa Chin, Geta Techanie, Jacob Heller, Edward Bever, Youngjoo Kim, Yogesh More, Barbara Hillery, Katarzyna Platt, Nicole Sieben, Shebuti Rayana, Patty Harris, Chante Hope, Carol Quirke, Lorenz Neuwirth, Rose Muzio, Tejas Bouklas, Ashok Basawapatna, Cris Notaro, Marissa Hoffmann, Becky Evans, Gary Levanti, Matthew Lippert, Betty Berbari, Lee Blackstone, Joanne Spadaro, Elena Smirnova, Martha Livingston, Malini Kumar, Costas Hadjicharalambous, Elizabeth Schmermund, Manya Mascareno, Lisa Payton, Ozgur Akgun, Keisha Goode, Shalei Simms



Roster of Senators Absent: Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Lina Gilic (EE,Senator-At-Large (SOE)), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Danielle Lee (LEC), Hana Elgoarany (SGA)




Call to Order 12:30 



II. Approval of Minutes for Dec 4, 2020 and Feb 5, 2021 

Dec 4, 2020 minutes approved by unanimous consent 

Feb 5, 2021 minutes approved by unanimous consent 



III. Chair’s Report 

Major focus of today’s meeting are the conditions for faculty and students in regards to  fall 2021

We experienced an enrollment drop this semester however we are hopefully this is not a trend that will continue. 

Encouraging faculty to help boost enrollment.

Issue of camera usage in zoom classes as been referred to the APPC. 

Full faculty meeting coming up next, encouraging more faculty to participate in governance. Committees will do brief introductions to promote running in the elections this spring.

Committee chairs will get invitation to a special meeting with executive committee.



IV. Provost’s Report 

Credit/no credit is now effective 

Prodigy fellowship program. Link referenced  https://jobs.chronicle.com/job/314782/suny-prodig-fellowship/

Congratulating department of history and philosophy and biological sciences, new degree programs that are now registered. 

Airforce ROTC presented by Chris Notaro. ROTC program allows students to get their degree here and take four courses at Manhattan college. They then make a commitment to serve however we are out of compliance due to lack of visibility.

Also the courses taken at Manhattan college need to be listed as our courses to be factored into their GPA.



V. UUP Report 

Thank you to TLRC, ARPT and especially Jill Crocker for their presentation at the “To tenure and Beyond” workshop, close to 20 faculty were present. 

Was also a debut of Interfolio and proof of all the work Jill Crocker has done.

Nominating petitions have gone out and have closed.

Ballots will be coming out for the voting cycle in the next couple of weeks.



VI. SGA Report 

Executive vice president gave the report.

SGA applications for candidacy starts February 21st.

Met with Dr. Sams and communicated concerns and future projects including SGA awards, starting a school garden and campus wide sensitivity training enhancing academic advising and sections of student conduct process. 



VII. Fall 2021 Discussion 

Provost started this conversation on what to expect in the fall.

Contingency planning, all aspect of what we get done on our campus falls under that.

Healthy and safety, student and faculty choice, quality of instructional service and student learning outcomes. These are the criteria within the contingency planning processing.

We want to have something consistent, Library opening has deemed successful.

As we reopen the library, we indicated we would have covid 19 capacities on available classrooms and would limit overall density within the two floors available to students. 

Main level of the library, partitioned tech commons consistent with guiding principles and limited access to circulation desk. Equity and access concerns are being addressed. 

Book sanitizer was purchased with CARES funds for library material

Make use of all this best practice or two and a half semesters of mixed modalities in preparation for fall instruction

The fall will be more of a blend of modalities. Communicate to students as far as what we heard from them by way of student survey. We want to provide our students with options as they move into the fall. We are not anticipating 100% density return to our campus in the fall. 

Contingency plan is considering 50% of the population be on campus. Which is subject to change. 

With use of mixed modalities we will be able to communicate to our students that we hear them. Some students are still concerned with health and safety and others are looking for more face to face engagement. 

Concerns were raised and a full conversation was raised.



VII. TLRC Resolution 

Withdrawal of original version and new version was introduced and accepted by unanimous consent. 

Resolution was read aloud of the resolution to create new innovation laboratory.

Help faculty understand the different modalities and provide more tools to aid faculty in teaching their students.

Deadline for senators to vote is to be done by the end of the day today. Will be done online through a link in your email.

An amendment was proposed in striking the third whereas, passed by unanimous consent. 

This last part of the resolution will be brought back to the senate in the near future.

Vote on resolution will still be needed by the end of the day on the first two whereas’s.



IX Presidents report 

We will become a nexus of activity among the physics community. Lectures will be held on our campus creating greater exposure for our campus. Queens and Long Island area. 

Students want to be back on campus, that is the consensus. SGA has expectation and hope that they would be back on campus this fall

A taskforce will be created to look at issue of increasing full time faculty on campus and push for more durability within the group.

Student concerned with issues around advisement. They would like to see strengthening in advising as students get closer to graduation.

Executive functioning skills. Students are not receiving the skillsets that they seek in order to compete in the work place.

In regards to athletics, latter part of March, SUNY athletic conference and skyline conference level. 

Le’ssandra Ramos will be taking Colleen Woods place has president’s secretary. 

Chief of staff Joanne Robinson begins on Monday. 

Martha Santana will be assistant to the president for administration and initiatives. She will being March 1st 





X. Enrollment Initiative 

Moved to next meeting 



XI. FRRC Annual Report 

Accepted by unanimous consent, at  Full Faculty meeting there will be discussion on the report



XII. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements 

TLRC has its next roundtable next Wednesday



XIII. Adjournment