SUNY / College at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate
Meeting Minutes -April 19, 2002
Present: N. Rosenthal, R. Colon-Urban, J. Lloyd, K. Wood, M. Dolan, A. Bonnett, C. Wright, J.
Llana, W. Shenouda, J. Edelson, M. Colaneri, I. Ahmed, A. Martinez, M. Teloki, A. Barbera, A.
Frisken, M. Keizer, C. Hobson, M. Keefe, M Crocitto, G. Snedeker, S. O’Connor
Visitors: R. Gonzalez, R. Welton, N. Sacks, C. Wardell, W. Lupardo, D. Stalker

1. Approval of April 5" Minutes
a.

2.

Senator Dolan requested that page 2, items 5 and 6 be amended to more accurately reflect
the discussion. Her comments are attached. Also attached to these minutes are copies of
correspondence pertaining to the BPC that were omitted from the April 5" minutes.
Item 3c on page 2 should read, “The assigned budget for Academic Affairs does not
include Professional Development and the First Year Experience. It will be up to the VP
to allocate money for these areas.”
Three typographical errors were corrected on page 3. On line 16, ... the major issues...;
on line 21, ...to get rid of the process...; and on line 34, ...the Chair voting no to break the
tie
The minutes were accepted unanimously as amended.

Chair’s Report (Rosenthal)
a.
Revision of agenda - there will be no report from the President, but there will be a report
from the University Faculty Senate
b. We will take up the resolution on structure of the General Education Program at the next
Senate meeting
c.
We will take up the revision of the bylaws regarding Chairs’ representative to CAP
during new business
d. The Chair reported on the University Senate meeting.
i. Governance leaders are now observers, but are organizing to articulate better with
Senate. Assessment was identified as a major concern. A resolution opposing
reporting of statistics to Albany was discussed, and will be brought to the next Senate
meeting.
ii. The University Senate called for nominations for standing committees - the deadline
is April 30". A list of committees and a nomination form are attached to these

minutes. Contact N. Rosenthal if you are interested in serving.

iii. M. Dolan presented a report on budget practices.
Senate office.
3.

Report from the Academic Vice President (Bonnett)
a.

A copy will be available in the

Dr. Bonnett announced that he will leave the AVP position during summer ‘02, and may
be returning to teaching. He thanked a number of individuals for their contributions
under his administration

b.
c.

d.

.

The master plan amendment for Accounting is to be presented to the Trustees next
Tuesday; other masters degrees will follow (letter attached)
Committees have met to select design teams for the Science Building Extension and
Academic Crescent. The campus mailed a letter to the State University Construction
Fund (SUCF) identifying the preferred firms (11 firms for the Academic Crescent, and 4
for the Science Building). The firms were not ranked, and the campus requested
interviews with those short-listed by the SUCF.
Two students, Jennifer Posner and Sunyata Smith, were honored with the Chancellors

Excellence Award.

Senate Perspective on Graduation Time (Rosenthal)

Senators noted that a weekend ceremony was easier for working families to attend. If

Sunday morning graduation cannot continue, Sunday afternoon was suggested as the
preferred alternative. If graduation must be scheduled on Friday, it should end 3 hours
before sundown to allow for religious observance. The Senate voted [18-0-1] to forward this
position to the President.
. Senate Membership (Rosenthal)
The Council of Chairs is now an administrative group, not a governance body, and should
not have a representative on Senate. The Senate concurred [16-0-3]; the Chair will ask the
Bylaws review committee to revise the Bylaws.
. Report from the Office of Services to Students with Disabilities (Lupardo)
a. Mr. Lupardo thanked faculty on the Disability Advisory Committee for their input and
support. He also publicly thanked the volunteers working in his office.
b. Progress in many areas - video library, Disability Awareness Week, accessible computer
equipment, student club (AFA) - was noted. A summary of his remarks is attached.
c. Mr. Lupardo appealed for additional support to address what he characterized as a crisis
situation. The office has only one paid staff member, insufficient space and insufficient
power for computers.
- Questions/Comments
a. Mr. Lupardo was commended for his extraordinary efforts. Senators noted that the
Capital Plan addresses the serious needs of the Disability office, but remedies are several
b.
c.
d.

years off. Strategic Plan funds to address interim needs have now been cut.
The SGA president noted that AFA has not been
budget. He encouraged students to advocate for
M. Crocitto will inform Technology Committee
Disabilities Office.
R. Colon-Urban and G. Snedeker will work on a
address Disability issues

active in SGA and has an unspent
their needs in SGA.
about Technology needs for the
resolution expressing faculty support to

. Report from the University Senate (Dolan)
a. Provost Salins addressed the Senate. He reported that the SUNY Urban Teacher

b.

Education Center (SUTEC) in NYC is now operational, and that the General Education
Assessment Review (GEAR) Committee is reviewing campus plans. He reported on an
academic technology initiative that was pitched to SUNY by a for-profit company that
includes an on-line history course. Senators objected to this outsourcing of curricular
development, and were assured by the Provost that this would not occur.
The Chancellor spoke about the scandal at Old Westbury, and commented on the firing
of the director and assistant director of the Construction Fund. He announced his
intention to create a system-wide Strategic Plan; subcommittees of the Strategic Planning
Committee will have faculty representation. M. Dolan will serve on the Resource
Development subcommittee. In response to a question, Chancellor King assured

Senators that senior administrative appointments on campuses were expected to be filled

through search processes.

9.

:

Comments / Questions
Senators asked for additional information on SUNY Connect.
full report from the Senate are attached to these minutes

Information about this and a

10. NYSERDA Report (Dolan)
We are now at the implementation stage for energy efficiency projects. A vendor has been
selected, and there is a plan to turn the campus into a model of energy efficiency. The
energy efficiency plan includes a requirement of open communication and responsiveness to
campus constituencies. The plan also includes alternative energy demonstration projects on
campus and connections to curriculum.
11. SGA Report (Teloki)
a. The campus will participate in the April 28" March of Dimes Walkathon. The fund
raising goal is $2000
b. Multicultural Day will be held during common hour on April 24". There will be an
international dinner at 6:00 PM
c. Students have been complaining about being misadvised by faculty. After a discussion
about the role of faculty and students in selecting courses, the Chair noted that the TLC
has conducted advising workshops for faculty and will be asked to do so again next

semester.

12. UUP Report (Colon-Urban)
The Senate watched a videotape of the de Russy interview that was aired on TV’s O’Reilly
Factor.
13. New Business
a.

b.

Nominations are needed for ARPT.

Nominees must be untenured, and not members of

Teacher Education, Humanities and Languages, Math, Psychology or Biological
Sciences. Nominations will be closed at the next Senate meeting.
J. Edelson commended the Alumni Affairs office, specifically Penny Chin, for efforts in
arranging the 1“ alumni dinner for TEP graduates. It took place at Crest Hollow and was

very successful.

14. Announcements
a. There will be a
Some funds are
b. There will be a
c. There will be a
attached).

SUNY conference on instructional technology at Oneonta 5/28 - 5/30.
available, and S. O’Connor will be making a presentation.
retirement party for N. Rosenthal on May 10" after the Faculty meeting.
picnic for the First Year Honor Society on April 26" (announcement

The meeting adjourned at 2:20 PM