[pic]

                               ARPT Committee

                                    [pic]
                           2014–2015 ANNUAL REPORT

            Submitted by Christopher Hobson, Chair, Jan. 30, 2016


INTRODUCTION

ARPT experienced a hard-working year in 2014–2015. As in several recent
years, there were shifts in the elected and continuing membership before
the year started: two members stepped off for other service assignments and
one left the college. As a result, three members were appointed for the
year by Senate action. The membership was: Christopher Hobson (EL; chair),
Patricia McLaughlin (VA), and Jingyi Song (HP), for the School of Arts and
Sciences; Albert Murphy (MMF) for the School of Business; Carolina
Bustamante (Adolescence Education) for the School of Education: Thomas
Lilly (PEL) and Lillian Park (PY), At-Large. Both new and old members
worked very hard and deserve the College’s thanks.


CASES

ARPT handled 25 cases (11 in the Fall and 13 in the Spring semesters) in
the following categories:

    • 1st Reappointment: 11
    • 2nd Reappointment: 9
    • One-Year-to-Tenure-Review Reappointment: 2
    • Tenure and Promotion to Associate: none
    • Promotion to Professor: 3

The results are tabulated in the accompanying Provost’s report. In the
great majority (22), there was substantial agreement at all levels; either
the Departmental and ARPT recommendations and the Administrative Decision
were the same, or, in a few cases involving divided recommendations, the
Administrative Decision concurred with both Department-level and ARPT
majority recommendations as to retention and term.

In two cases the Administrative Decision involved a change in the
recommendations from the Department and ARPT. These cases involved no
differences at any level over the candidates’ merits, but confusion or
changes at the Administrative level about what the College should or could
legally offer. One case is still pending, though the terms are agreed and
simply awaiting action. While these cases involve acceptable outcomes, it
must be noted that changes or lack of clarity at the Administrative level
inevitably create uncertainty in the candidates about how fairly they are
being treated.

A final case did involve different assessments of merit. In this case, the
Department voted unanimously against reappointment. ARPT’s role in the
reappointment/promotion/tenure process is to assess the candidate’s file
independently with attention both to adherence to the By-Laws and to the
candidate’s substantive performance in the three areas of teaching,
service, and professional activity, and to make a recommendation on this
basis. ARPT was satisfied that this candidate’s file met College standards
for a two-year reappointment and so recommended by unanimous vote. ARPT’s
recommendations, however, are not binding, and in this case the
Administrative Decision was for non-reappointment.

                                    [pic]



                                    [pic]



                                    [pic]

                                      [pic]