STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
Faculty Senate
Friday, April 17, 2020
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location: Virtual Meeting
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
MINUTES
Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer), Maureen Dolan
(Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At Large Rep to the EC), Bonnie
Eannone (Professional), Laura Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At Large), Roger Mayer (AC), Jillian Nissen
(BS), Camile Jones (C&P), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi
(FRRC), Edislav Manetovic (LEC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Erin Toolis (PY),
Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young Park (Math/CIS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez
(Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Peter Ikeler (APPC), Ashley Alvarado (SGA Senator), Zarrin Mahmud (SGA
Senator)
Senators Absent: Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), Jingyi Song (HP),
Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Runi Muhkerji
(University Senator Alternate), Blidi Stemm (CE), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH),
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Amanda Frisken (Acting Dean, SAS) Diana Sukhram (Acting

Dean, SOE) Raj Devasagayam (Dean, SOB)
Visitors: Martha Livingston, Jacob Heller, Anthony Barbera, Jennie D’Amboise, Parker Stephens,
Jahvon Spencer-Newell, Gregg Rodger, Barbara Hillery. Chibundu Chukuezi, Jason Kaloudis, Kerry
Weir, Patricia Harris, Chelsea Shields-Mas, Tricia Mclaughlin, Frank Pizzardi, Jillian Crocker

I.

Call to Order 12:30 p.m.

II.

Approval of Minutes for March 3, 2020
•

III.

Minutes were approved as amended
Chair’s Report

1. Agenda Items for the May 1st Full Faculty Meeting and the May 15th Senate Meeting? We
have two meetings left in the semester. Senators: What should governance be discussing? What
does the full faculty need to hear about? Please send agenda items to the Senate Chair as soon as
possible. What needs to be done to be ready for fall?
2. Faculty Election Nominations Due Today. Email nominations for faculty committees to
Dinorah Martinez today, Friday 4/17.

3. Nominations for Faculty Senate Chair: Senators! You are eligible to run for Faculty Senate
Chair for AY 2020-2021. Nominate yourself or any current senator by emailing Dinorah
Martinez. Nominations close on May 15th. The election will take place at the May 15th Senate
meeting.
4. Liberal Education Committee: “LEC held a meeting on the new grading policy for this
semester. The decision was that: "CR will count for all gen ed and proficiency courses for spring
2020 only."”
5. Academic Policy & Practices Committee: The APPC co-chairs engaged in an email exchange
with Academic Affairs to advise the Provost on his proposed temporary revisions of grading and
credit policy for this semester. The need to inform students in a timely manner to reduce our
attrition rate requires that Academic Affairs make quick policy adjustments. The normal process
of faculty deliberation was necessarily abbreviated due to exigent circumstances. These policy
changes are temporary measures that will expire after this academic year unless the pandemic
shutdown continues into the fall which may require an extension of these temporary measures.
6. Academic Policy Changes: The Senate Chair wishes to thank the Provost and Academic
Affairs for consulting repeatedly with governance, APPC, ARPT, and LEC to discuss the
necessary changes to appointment, student evaluation, academic grading, credit/no credit,
proficiency, academic standing, dorm policy, and other temporary policy revisions required to
safeguard the interests of our faculty and students in this difficult time.
7. Information & Technology Services: The Senate Chair wishes to thank the CIO and all the
Staff of ITS for their tireless efforts to support, train, and equip faculty and students for our new
adventures in distance learning. I know that many faculty members are especially grateful to
Chandra Shehigian and her staff of trainers for teaching us to use Blackboard and Collaborate to
reconnect with our students. The staff at the Service Desk have also been crucial to navigating
our new tech environment and handling our many support requests. Thank you.
8. SPAAR Committee Update: The committee co-chairs are assessing the ability of the
committee to complete its charge this semester in response to the obstacles created by the
pandemic. The new priorities of the administration and the faculty have slowed the progress of
our assessment. However, the committee has collected data from the divisions about the
implementation of the strategic plans. The data is being analyzed by SPAAR subcommittees
responsible for assessing progress and make recommendations by the May 15th SPAARC
meeting regarding the next academic and fiscal year. A report will be submitted to the
administration and faculty governance in June of 2020.
9. The President: The President is not able to attend the senate meeting today. His office was
contacted twice via email to confirm his plan to attend. The first response was that the Office of
the President could not confirm that the President would attend due to the unpredictable
demands on the President’s time because of the crisis conditions and his many important
responsibilities arising from the building of a hospital facility on the campus. There was no reply
from the Office of the President to a second email asking for confirmation. Since there was no
response, the Chair of the Senate removed the Presidential Report from the agenda for this
meeting.

IV.

Provost’s Report
•

•

•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•

V.

Barbara Hillery: The first thing is, I believe it was at the last senate meeting, when we were
discussing the credit, no credit policy, that people were asking for an advisory of some sort,
something that would help with advising students as to whether or not they should take the
credit, no credit. So, Deans have been collecting that information. It's been sent to Duncan, he
has created the advisory for the undergraduates that that I think people want.
The lot of people have been asking about faculty lines at this point in time. SUNY has issued a
30-day moratorium on any employment actions for full time people. So, that's being termed
essentially a hiring freeze. So, there is a hiring freeze at least temporarily. But it's not just
hiring. We can't fire anybody either.
They've made it clear that during this COVID period, there can be for at least 30 days up until
about the middle of May, there can be no actions on full time employees in terms of hiring or
firing. Then after that, basically, it's all budget related.
What they're discussing at the moment is that if any hires are made, they need to be
prioritized in terms of need.
An update on the natural science building renovations. As you know, we've been trying for
some time to get, you know, essentially an extra $80 million beyond what we were offered
initially in order to build in addition, at the moment, well we still don't have that money, but
we're going forward with the renovation of the current building itself.
We had a meeting with the architects on April 1, that included the architects and included
the Capital Planning people from Old Westbury. Our next meeting for the renovations is set
for April 22.
Jacob Heller : In addition to the credit/no credit policy that everyone is now should be fully
aware of that Barbara talked about academic affairs is also working with faculty governance
to address the issue of students who are on probation, and who might be subject to
suspension or dismissal on the basis of their GPA.
So, if students get more than if they were on probation in the fall, they get higher than a 2.0.
This semester, they're off probation. If they were on probation as of the end of the fall, and
they don't get the 2.0. This semester, their probation will be extended into the fall semester.
Possibility of academic standing hearings for those who need it in August but certainly not in
June.
Anthony Barbera: It's just the periodic update on the status of Middle States. We're very
appreciative that everyone on the Middle States work groups have continued to work on
their charges. We continue to get draft chapters we continue to make revisions. And the
steering committee continues to meet on its regularly scheduled dates. So, we are moving
along and we are on target to have a pen ultimate final draft of the report in time for the fall.
When still right now, our team, our visiting team chair is scheduled to make a preliminary
visit. We still don't know who that team chair will be. So, we don't have an actual date yet for
when the visit will be. The visit will be sometime in the spring of 2021.
UUP Update (M. Livingston)

•

UUP has been holding meetings. Things that have been very successful. We had a virtual
adjunct focused meeting on Tuesday at Common Hour, which was very well attended and
any adjuncts who are on this meeting, please feel free to join us. The next one is going to be
on Tuesday the 28th also at Common Hour. Last night, we had a virtual happy hour.

•
•
•
•
•

People just are enjoying being with one another. We have our first ever virtual general
membership meeting this coming Tuesday, the 21st at noon. If you cannot make it, we will
also have virtual office hours on Tuesday at 2:30.
We have some ongoing concerns about the security for members files that are being
digitized, and to my knowledge, Jacob, there were no modifications in the ARPT meeting
schedule.
However, going forward this may be the way to go, moving away from paper and digitizing
files going forward.
One issue that UUP is concerned about is the issue of tenure clocks. And that is, we're talking
statewide to SUNY about the issues that our pre tenured folks will have going forward.
There are three categories of members who we really feel especially need additional
compensation. And of those three categories two have them apply to our campus. That
would be our adjunct faculty, and second category on our campus is, of course, our IT staff.

E-Catalog Subcommittee Report (C. Noutsos, K. Weir)

VI.

•

•
•
VII.

The E-catalog Task Force, it's a large committee with diverse perspectives. We've been
meeting throughout the spring semester and are going to continue to meet into the weeks
ahead as of now, we have spoken to four possible vendors.
We've spoken to Leepfrog, CourseLeaf, Digarc, Coursedog , and SmartCatalog by Watermark.
Right now, the current situation has us looking at moving the course catalog into a digital
version no earlier than the fall of 2021.
SGA Resolution (Zarrin Mahmud, SGA Senator)

•

•
•
•
•

•

Myself and a lot of other students on campus, we're pretty concerned about our academic
performance. Which will be impacted given the current circumstances. So that's why as
student leaders we put together this resolution that we feel better accommodates the
situation that we're facing without jeopardizing our goals, post higher education.
The resolution was read to the Senate.
SGA recommends the following ABC grading scale, which is to have an A fall in the range
between the hundred and 87th percentile, or B followed within 86 and 74th percentile. And
C between 73 and 68th percentile.
Also further recommends to waive all letter grade requirements for the spring 2020
semester in each department.
It was pointed out that there is a credit/no credit option, however some departments have
chosen to keep a grade requirement. And it may very well be that a C, which could be earned
with a 60 may not be acceptable to those departments either, in which case, those
departments may feel necessary to raise the minimum requirements this semester to a B,
which would be counterproductive to what the students are trying to achieve and what all of
us are trying to achieve.
Open for questions and discussion.

[At this point the meeting was disrupted by a “Zoom-bombing.” Some participants left the meeting,
some returned shortly after. After everyone was settled the discussion continued.]

•
•
VIII.
•

•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•

No action was taken on the SGA resolution. Procedural point: the resolution had not been
seconded.
Suggestions were made regarding how to bring the resolution or a substitute resolution to a
subsequent Senate meeting.
IT Governance Committee Update (C. Holland)
So much of the last meeting was dedicated to discussing the issue of whether to use Zoom or
Microsoft Teams moving forward. So, the administration and ITS, did acknowledge that most
of the faculty prefer Zoom over Teams, and signal that we will probably plan to transition to
a campus wide use of Zoom in the future.
Still getting a Zoom contract will cost more than Microsoft Teams. That's obviously a
concern. And there's administrative features that come with Microsoft teams that are
available in Zoom but are more expensive and they it takes some planning to implement it.
There are still some people who prefer Microsoft Teams, especially for small meetings, oneon-one meetings like the tutoring center. Advising has also been using Microsoft Teams
effectively. It’s an option to have both, but again, this will depend on cost and other things.
ITS confirmed that about half the students who requested laptops were given them during
this transition phase.
There's still discussion about whether they want to lower the vetting on those students who
still haven't received laptops, and perhaps be more flexible with them, given the current
situation.
Good news, and I believe this was already reported in the past, but 80 to 90% of students
have transitioned relatively successfully to the distance learning format. They're engaged,
they haven't disappeared. And that seems like a positive number, considering that some of
our students, given the backgrounds they tend to come from, are on the front lines of this
crisis.
I know there's concern about transitioning to new projectors, new computers. There's a lot
of issues we had in the classroom. So, the original plan was to have four different classrooms
in place for trials for four different companies, projectors coming from four different
companies. But that obviously can't happen now, in this spring semester.
There' is a plan to do it over the summer. But I didn't get any more details on that. They just
said that it is planned for the summer. So hopefully it will be the upgrades will be ready for
the fall. Initially, all of the New Academic Building classrooms were going to be upgraded. It's
not clear at this point, if that will still happen.
Floor was open for discussion

IX. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements
X. Adjournment (2:30pm)

(20 minutes)