Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Fall 2019 Report



	Submitted by Joanne Spadaro and Veronika Dolar	

November 29, 2019



I. Membership

The current membership of the Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee consists of four full-time, tenure-streamed faculty members (three of whom have taught one or more OER courses) the OER Librarian (tenured), a full-time, tenure-streamed faculty librarian with knowledge of OER, a student representative designated by the SGA Executive Board, the College’s Instructional Designer, and the OER liaison for Academic Affairs.  Veronika Dolar and Joanne Spadaro serve as co-chairs, and Christa DeVirgilio is the secretary.  



Members

Departments 

Zulema Cabail   

Biology

Jennie D’Ambroise

Math

Christa DeVirgilio

Library

Veronika Dolar

Politics, Economics & Law

Svetlana Jovic   

Psychology

Jessica T. Smith

Student Government Association

Ex-Officio Members



Chandra Shehigian  (non-voting member)

Information Technology, Instructional Designer

Joanne Spadaro   (voting member)

Library, OER Librarian

Duncan Quarless   (non-voting member)

Academic Affairs

 

II. Activities

Meetings

During spring 2019, the Committee held 3 face-to-face meetings, and continue to carry out much of its work online.  Three members of the Committee (C. DeVirgilio, D. Quarless, J. Spadaro,) also serve as Leads for SUNY’s OER funded initiatives on campus and attend regular SUNY OER Services online meetings.    



OER New Course Awards – Fall 2019

On September 5, 2019, the Committee sent out a call for proposals for new OER course proposals for the fall 2019 semester.  We received, reviewed, and approved two proposals (MA-1-1, PY-1) from faculty for fall 2019.  The amounts of the incentive stipends awarded to the applicants are $500 (MA) for adopting OER, and $1500 (PY) for creating OER.  The awards will be disbursed after the courses are taught.



OER New Course Development Proposals – Spring 2020

On October 16, 2019, the Committee send out a call for new OER course development proposals for spring 2020.  The deadline for submission was November 25, 2019.  Applicants will receive results of the final review by January 17, 2020.   

 

Registered OER Courses

The Committee also reviewed OER course syllabi and course materials (for funded and unfunded courses) to determine whether they meet SUNY’s requirements to be designated as an OER course and identified with the OER attribute in the course registration system.  A course section is designated as OER if more than 50% of the assigned course materials is comprised of open educational resources.  This designation is on a semester-by-semester basis, and is at the discretion of the instructors/departments.  The following tables represents the number of courses by departments that were registered in our system and with SUNY for fall 2019.  

Fall 2019

Departments

Courses

BU

2

HI

1

MA

2

PE

4

PY

6

SY

3

TOTAL

18



The Committee is pleased to report that all PY2010 Introduction to Psychology courses were converted to OER courses in the fall.  



Open Educational Resources & Creative Commons: An Introduction 

On October 22, 2019, J. Spadaro provided a one-hour workshop on OER and Creative Commons copyright licensing for faculty and staff.  The event was co-supported by the Committee and SUNY Old Westbury Library.  

   



III.  Future Planning



Host a roundtable in which several OW faculty members who use OER present how they teach with OER.  

Offer workshops on open educational resources and open licensing for faculty and staff.



2 | Page