SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, October 3, 2003
12:30-2:30 pm

Present: Judy Walsh, Esther Gomez-Nieto, Ana Martinez, Richard Brown, Carl Mirra,

Virgilija Remeza, Ibssa Ahmed, Lawrence Cox, Anthony Barbera, Duncan Quarless, Joseph
Conforti, R. Jill Edelson, George Snedeker, Edward Bever, Caroline Sawyer, Sharon
O’Connor, Christopher Hobson, Adeoba David Oyero, Laura Anker

Minutes recorded by Judy Walsh, Humanities and Languages
1. The minutes
1.
2.
3.

of September 12 meeting were approved with the following changes:
Change on p. 2, pnt 5, Voting Rights, change C. Velsor to K. Velsor.
Miller-Lamb listed twice.
P. 2, pnt 4, BPC: report was not attached to some copies, and Tom’s point

was that the decision was to use funds to renovate the Academic Village.

2. Report from the Chair (K Velsor)
We might want to ask, as the Senate, how to get people more interested. Need to
discuss “term limits” for officers and participants in the Senate.
3. Report from the Academic Vice President (Dr Cox)
a. Masters’ Degree Program is moving along. Education Department is moving
toward offering the M.A.
b. Sabbaticals for 2004-2005: There is uncertainty of sabbatical leaves because of the
budget for the next year.
c. Searches are ongoing for some unfilled positions.
d. Rumors of mice: try not to eat in office spaces or classrooms.
e. Tenure and Promotion Letters: Understand that they are forthcoming and if not
received by Wednesday of next week, call Dr. Cox.
f. Office supplies: Please send requisitions for supplies; if out, supplies are on an
emergency basis.
g. Proposal for Lab fees
1. AVP asked what people thought about lab fees
2. AVP assured that the Science Departments would get lab fees back, but
they might want to consider adding $15 to the student bills for lab use.
3. Duncan Quarless raised the issue that some experiments, especially
micro-scale, were being chosen over others on the basis of costs.
4. Caroline Sawyer thought more costs might discourage student enrollment
in science courses.
5. Dr. Cox responded that in most places the students bear these lab costs.

6. Sharon O’Connor reported that the computers in the Education Department
also have costs and the Education Department would also like to have lab
fees.
7. Question to the Senate: Can the Senate support the use of lab fees?

8. M. Dolan suggested Senators take polls in their departments and survey
other SUNY departments regarding their lab fee practices.
9. D. Quarless — there is a report for the National Sciences Department on the
biology, chemistry, and physics departments. How many students are
affected? (answer— about 120-200 students per semester in biology would

bring about $2500- $3000 per semester). Chemistry would be extra with
some lab funding coming from grants.

Consensual decision to table the discussion and include the departments to research all
the ways to have adequate funds, including being frugal in their spending.
4. Report from the President (C Butts)

a. State of the campus enrollments

1. Enrollment is up 3% to 3,241 (FTE 2819 and FTC up 12% with new

transfers) which is good news.
2. Rate of returning students is flat, with the attrition rate down for second year
students down 9% from past rates of attrition.
3. Students transferring to other schools - 18.5% most of whom were in good

academic standing.
4. Retaining the continuing students is still a challenge to all faculty and staff.
b. State of the Budget 1. No new news— the budget remains flat from the last year.
2. Don’t yet have the allocation from SUNY.
3. A 5% to 6% mid-year cut is predicted, but nothing concrete to report.
c. Informational reports and invitations to the faculty

1. Information session on the Land Preservation Project— Oct 15 there will be

two presentations at the Student Union, 1-3 pm and 5-6 pm.
2. Rich Brown will.speak about the $25,000 that the Foundation gives in
unrestricted funds to the college for this fiscal year. Next round of
applications due on October 15.
3. Scholarship reception — report on a great event with 25 eicinship winners
and family guests. 20 donors were present and 11 faculty recipients were
also there to meet the Board members. Many thanks to the faculty and
students and to those who gave money.
d. Report on the 3-4 credit issue: No change is recommended and the administration is
waiting for the CAP report.
5. Election of Secretary-Treasurer for the Senate (K Velsor)
a. The Chair of the Faculty Senate reported on the letter of appeal sent to the
departments looking for members of the Executive Board.
b. The recommendation that Dr. Eloise Linger of Politics, Economics and Society be
appointed to serve as Secretary in the future was passed unanimously.
6. Report on the Hispanic/Latino Cultural Center presented by Esther Gémez-Nieto
As a result of many years of trips for cultural enrichment of the curriculum, the
Spanish language faculty proposed and began six years ago to bring events to the
campus. As the events grew, so did the idea of a cultural center that could centralize

in a focused way the cultural presence on campus and also enhance the possibilities of
fund-raising for the ambitious schedule of plays, film festivals, art exhibitions,
concerts and so on. Faculty and staff members alike share the credit for the great

success of these events.

First proposed in Spring 2001, the idea for a center was not approved until more

recently. The Center, now formally approved, will be located in Academic Village in
tower B — 4. Its Board of Directors include faculty members Z. Madurka,

J. Fernandez, S. Assa, E. Gomez-Nieto, with the Chair of the Humanities and

Languages Department, currently James Llana, always serving as a member of the

Board. Other faculty and adjuncts may be incorporated onto the Board, according to

tules established. The current Director of the Center is Esther Gomez-Nieto who has
proposed and guided the proposal to fruition.
All faculty are urged to attend the inauguration of the Center on Sunday,
November 16, from 2 to 5 pm in the new Student Union. Most of the consuls
general of all the Spanish-speaking countries in New York have been invited and
have shown interest in attending.
7. Move on Assessment (K. Velsor)
a. On 9/26 the SUNY faculty governance and the system administrator drafted a
proposal, copies of which are available from M. Dolan.
b. Assessment is for a general education value-added assessment
1. How to improve the existing programs.
2. Assessment results never intended to punish or compare departments.
Discussion by Academic Vice President Cox that this has been a national discussion, and the
question by the Provost of SUNY: What, as faculty, do we want our students to know?
Is there a Core body of knowledge that we are teaching? If so, how does it compare to
- that of other colleges? When we graduate students, can we say they have mastered a
certain amount of education — or did we just waste their money? Can they read and
write well, or do what an employer expects? The Provost wants answers from each
campus with excellence in teaching whatever is considered the “core body of

knowledge.” The move-on assessment offers a road map for the discussions.

Discussion by C. Hobson: The key issue was that the preliminary document wanted entry and
exit tests in each academic area.
Discussion by K Velsor: New statement gives campuses the opportunity to create their own
testing. Sept 2003 was the month to begin these tests for a 2-year pilot project.
Planning sessions in October and formalization of the tests for campuses that have
volunteered to do so.
Discussion by AVP Cox: Our plan has been approved for the first wave of testing.
Discussion by M Dolan: Concern raised over how this move for system-wide assessment
related to the Gen-Ed curriculum. Faculty may lose control over the curricula if there
are standardized tests.
Discussion by AVP Cox: It is a contentious issue. The proposal suggests we test for a
minimum that students should learn; nothing prevents us from doing more., We
should not get bogged down in a fight, yet we need to determine 1f there is a body of
knowledge that we “add” to what students know. Not sure that we have established
yet what OW students must have.

Discussion by C. Hobson: Our assessment procedures were approved but that is not the same

as this proposal. The central issue is not whether we at OW have standards and goals
but whether a system-wide test is the best way to address this issue. Whatever is done
for Math, Basic Communications, etc., will later be extended to all subjects.

If there is

a test, people will have to teach to it.
Discussion continuing by K. Velsor, AVP Cox, J. Conforti, C. Hobson, D. Quarless,
M. Dolan, C. Sawyer, regarding: who sets the norms of testing; the pros of each
discipline having its own “standard body of knowledge” versus the cons of the
degrading of pedagogy by standardized testing; and the key issue of whether student
skills are being lost or enhanced and how well they can perform when they graduate.
8. Old business

a. Laura Anker — Need nominations and elections for the ARPT Committee which has
six members, but needs eleven people and coming from different departments.
Those now represented are HL, AS, Marketing, PES; SOC, PSY, and maybe
Biology. We need Math, ELS, Library, Chem/Physics, and Visual Arts.

b. Senate voted unanimously to approve Lisa Whitten (PSY) and Z. Madurka (HL) for

the ARPT.

c. A. Barbera reports that Business already has Senators and Chairs and can be

considered as three different departments. Motion, A. Barbera - that since the

School of Business has three separate Senators, and three separate Chairs, and
functions as different departments, for the purposes of committee representation,
these should be considered as three separate departments.
The motion was unanimously approved.
9. New Business

Introduction of the new SGA President, Adeoha David Oyero, who asked the faculty

to please allow representatives of the SGA to come into the classroom and allow them
two minutes to speak to the class.
.
:
10. Motion passed to adjourn the meeting of Oct. 3, 2003.