ACADEMIC PORTFOLIO OPTIMIZATION

QUESTIONS
• For both academic programs SUNY OW
has, as well as those they might consider
adding in the future, where do we see:
growth, decline, stagnation, and stability?
• Based on historical degree conferral
trends, which academic programs are likely
to be attractive to students?
• Among these, which programs align
with SUNY OW’s strengths or fields
that it would consider for signature
program development?
• Among these, which fields show a
substantial volume of distance
programs and should be considered
for potential online programs?

METHODOLOGY

OUTCOMES

Hanover Research will discover
potential opportunities regarding
programmatic offerings through a
high-level assessment of student
and labor demand trends.

✓ Identify possible fields for signature and
online program development

We recommend further programspecific analyses for areas of
interest to address and
contextualize viability through a
review of other market factors, such
as the competitive landscape, job
opening trends and often-sought
academic qualifications, and recent
industry trends. Please see the
Academic Program Assessment
page for additional details.

✓ Identify other high-growth, highpotential program offerings to increase
enrollment and revenue.
✓ Identify possible areas of refinement to
align portfolio with regional labor
market needs and student demand.

✓ Evaluate initial investment potential in
specific academic programs or fields.

ESTIMATED TIMELINE

~6 WEEKS

1

SAMPLE PROPOSAL: BACHELOR’S-LEVEL ACADEMIC PORTFOLIO
OPTIMIZATION
Hanover Research proposes beginning program development-focused
research with a high-level review of student and labor demand to
assess the health of SUNY OW’s current undergraduate portfolio and
identify opportunities for signature and online program development.

RESEARCH QUESTIONS
▪
▪
▪
▪

For both bachelor’s degree programs SUNY OW has, as well as those it might consider adding in the future,
where do we see: growth, decline, stagnation, and stability?
How does the performance of SUNY OW’s bachelor’s programs compare against trends within the region?
Based on programmatic gaps within the region and existing strengths, what bachelor’s programs present
promising opportunities for signature program development?
Based on trends in distance programs, what high-growth, high-potential bachelor’s programs present promising
opportunities for online program development?

HANOVER’S APPROACH
Hanover Research will identify potential opportunities regarding bachelor’s programmatic offerings through a highlevel assessment of state and national student demand trends as measured by degree conferral rates, and labor
market trends as measured by economic forecasts. The report will analyze demand trends in fields in which SUNY
OW currently reports programs, as well as fields outside of its existing portfolio. To further assess employment
needs in the state, Hanover Research will supplement this analysis with a review of industry trends and projected
occupational shortages.

2

2

ACADEMIC PROGRAM ASSESSMENT

QUESTIONS
• What is the feasibility of launching a
specific proposed academic program at
SUNY OW?
• What does potential student demand
look like for this proposed degree?
• Will graduates of this potential
program be able to find employment?
What will these jobs look like?
• What is the competitive landscape for
this potential degree program? What
are SUNY OW’s peers/competitors
offering in this field?
• What other market factors such as
geographic location, economic climate,
and institutional mission might affect
demand?

METHODOLOGY
Hanover Research will assess the
feasibility of launching a specific
proposed program by analyzing
three critical elements: student
demand as measured by degree
conferral trends; labor market
demand as measured by economic
forecasts for related jobs in the
industry; and market saturation as
measured by the density and
homogeneity of the competitive
landscape. To supplement the
student and labor market demand,
Hanover will review secondary
sources, such as professional
organizations, accreditation
agencies, and other related
organizations, that speak to the
demand for programs that offer
educational opportunities for the
proposed program.

OUTCOMES
✓ Increase student enrollment and
revenue through a new program
offering.
✓ Assess new program viability.
✓ Avoid launching programs with low
demand or excess competitive supply.
✓ Understand how to position a new
program offering for success within the
market

ESTIMATED TIMELINE

~6 WEEKS

3