SUNY Old Westbury

MSCHE – Supplemental Information Report

Michael Kavic, 

Cris

 

Notaro

, Frank 

Sanacory

Co-chairs

Report to the faculty senate

MSCHE action in response to the SUNY OW self study

To acknowledge receipt of the self-study report. To note that the institution hosted a virtual site visit in lieu of an on-site visit in accordance with the United States Department of Education (USDE) guidelines published March 17, 2020. 

To reaffirm accreditation. To request a supplemental information report, due March 1, 2022

, documenting further evidence of (1) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student learning opportunities (Standard III); (2) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student support programs and experiences (Standard IV); (3) clearly stated institutional and program-level goals which are aligned with each other and with the institution’s mission (Standard V); (4) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement (Standard V); (5) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement in general education (Standard V); (6) sufficient support to sustain the assessment of student achievement and to communicate results of assessment to stakeholders (Standard V); and (7) demonstrated and documented use of assessment results to improve educational effectiveness (Standard V).

 To direct a follow-up team visit following submission of the supplemental information report. 

To note the visit will also fulfill the verification requirements of the USDE guidelines. The next evaluation visit is scheduled for 2028-2029

MSCHE action in response to the SUNY OW self study

To acknowledge receipt of the self-study report. To note that the institution hosted a virtual site visit in lieu of an on-site visit in accordance with the United States Department of Education (USDE) guidelines published March 17, 2020. To reaffirm accreditation. To request a supplemental information report, due March 1, 2022, documenting further evidence of 

(1) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student learning opportunities (Standard III);

 (2) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student support programs and experiences (Standard IV); (3) clearly stated institutional and program-level goals which are aligned with each other and with the institution’s mission (Standard V); (4) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement (Standard V); (5) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement in general education (Standard V); (6) sufficient support to sustain the assessment of student achievement and to communicate results of assessment to stakeholders (Standard V); and (7) demonstrated and documented use of assessment results to improve educational effectiveness (Standard V). To direct a follow-up team visit following submission of the supplemental information report. To note the visit will also fulfill the verification requirements of the USDE guidelines. The next evaluation visit is scheduled for 2028-2029

Feedback from the visiting team report on standard 3

Implement a learning outcomes-based 

assessment plan for the Liberal Education, Honors, and First-Year Experience programs 

and communicate its results to the University community. 

Implement a 

goals-based assessment process for all academic programs 

and units and communicate its results to the University community.  

Implement 

a periodic review process for all academic programs 

and units and communicate its results to the University community.  

Leverage the Center for Excellence in Teaching & Learning as a venue for training and for assisting faculty and staff with the development of the academic assessment plans.  

Conduct 

a holistic review of course syllabi and content to ensure that course goals and intended learning outcomes are made evident to students

, as well as their importance. 

MSCHE action in response to the SUNY OW self study

To acknowledge receipt of the self-study report. To note that the institution hosted a virtual site visit in lieu of an on-site visit in accordance with the United States Department of Education (USDE) guidelines published March 17, 2020. To reaffirm accreditation. To request a supplemental information report, due March 1, 2022, documenting further evidence of (1) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student learning opportunities (Standard III); 

(2) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student support programs and experiences (Standard IV); 

(3) clearly stated institutional and program-level goals which are aligned with each other and with the institution’s mission (Standard V); (4) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement (Standard V); (5) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement in general education (Standard V); (6) sufficient support to sustain the assessment of student achievement and to communicate results of assessment to stakeholders (Standard V); and (7) demonstrated and documented use of assessment results to improve educational effectiveness (Standard V). To direct a follow-up team visit following submission of the supplemental information report. To note the visit will also fulfill the verification requirements of the USDE guidelines. The next evaluation visit is scheduled for 2028-2029

Feedback from the visiting team report on standard 4

There is less than compelling information that the College 

publishes information regarding student achievement, including student outcome measures.  

 

The College conducts periodic assessment of the effectiveness of programs supporting the student experience but the Self-Study describes 

only the use of indirect measures (e.g., student satisfaction) as the means for such assessment. 

MSCHE action in response to the SUNY OW self study

To acknowledge receipt of the self-study report. To note that the institution hosted a virtual site visit in lieu of an on-site visit in accordance with the United States Department of Education (USDE) guidelines published March 17, 2020. To reaffirm accreditation. To request a supplemental information report, due March 1, 2022, documenting further evidence of (1) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student learning opportunities (Standard III); (2) the periodic assessment of the effectiveness of student support programs and experiences (Standard IV); 

(3) clearly stated institutional and program-level goals which are aligned with each other and with the institution’s mission (Standard V); (4) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement (Standard V); (5) organized and systematic assessments that evaluate the extent of student achievement in general education (Standard V); (6) sufficient support to sustain the assessment of student achievement and to communicate results of assessment to stakeholders (Standard V); and (7) demonstrated and documented use of assessment results to improve educational effectiveness (Standard V). 

To direct a follow-up team visit following submission of the supplemental information report. To note the visit will also fulfill the verification requirements of the USDE guidelines. The next evaluation visit is scheduled for 2028-2029

Feedback from the visiting team report on standard 5: 

PSLO

s

The Self-Study evidence inventory and the 

College’s website failed to reveal clearly stated PSLOs

.  Additional documentation was requested and a comprehensive list of academic programs and their PSLOs was provided.  A review of this information verified that PSLOs are clearly stated, though there is concern that the 

PSLOs in certain academic programs do not sufficiently link to the underlying discipline(s) in the degree.  

Develop a process to ensure that 

PSLOs are readily available to all institutional stakeholders and reviewed on a regular cycle.  

Feedback from the visiting team report on standard 5: 

CLOSING THE LOOP

Create an assessment repository, using appropriate technologies to 

ensure that closing the loop activities are monitored 

and results are available and useable by all stakeholder groups. 

The Liberal Education Program has not had a complete assessment cycle since the transition from GEP, and 

only limited evidence is provided of any curricular changes.  

Limited evidence was provided to demonstrate 

use of assessment results in SAS programs to improve curriculum or student learning.    

Feedback from the visiting team report on standard 5: 

infrastructure & culture building

The Self-Study report recommendation 5.2 states that “the College should implement a standard process of program assessment, in consultation with faculty governance” for 

programs without specialized accreditation.  

The evidence inventory, additional documentation requests and campus interviews verified that the College 

does not have an organized and systematic process for academic assessment in these programs. 

Increase human and fiscal resources to sustain and improve the College’s assessment culture and infrastructure.   

Create an assessment repository, using appropriate technologies 

to ensure that closing the loop activities are monitored and results are available and useable by all stakeholder groups. 

Consequences 

If after the submission of the SIR and follow up visit the College is found to have not provided evidence of sufficient progress in the identified areas MSCHE can take actions in the following ways.

Additional reporting requirements and visits.

SUNY OW can publicly be put on probation by MSCHE.

The College’s accreditation can be removed.

Loss of accreditation will render the college faculty, students and staff ineligible for federal and state aid.

This will all but ensure the College would need to cease operation.

What is an SIR? 

Supplemental Information Report

We submit an SIR

 when we are "in compliance with all standards..."

But some additional oversight is needed, and we should demonstrate the sustainability of implemented corrective measures and further evidence of sustained, on-going institutional compliance.

We submit on March 1st and we expect another site visit and a set of interviews

Middle States Liaison 

OW meet with Liaison twice so far (Aug 3 and Nov 2)

We have seven items in three separate standards to respond to

continuous assessment cycle for all departments 

We should show progress over the entire community and a coherent program 

Carrot and stick

Carrot

 is a return on assessment – better academic experience, better learning for our students, support long term

Stick

 

Consequences for not performing assessment

We must include assessment of the assessment vehicle!

What do we need to do?

Assessment and collect evidence

Program-wise PSLOs, Curriculum maps and hopefully closing the loop

Student support services as well

Demonstrate  this is on-going sustainable 

Demonstrate it is supported by departments, by the administration, by continuing internal structures and mechanisms, by Faculty (and FS) participation

MS RESPONSE COMMITTEE

Evidence Team

 

Ashlee Lien 

Runi

 Mukherji 

Courtney Raeford 

Ryoko Yamamoto

Matt Lippert 

 

 

 

Advisory Team

 

Barbara Hillery 

Lisandra

 Ramos 

Jo-Ann Robinson 

Martha Santana 

Writing Team

 

Jillian Crocker 

Amanda Frisken 

Cristina Notaro 

Stephanie Schneider 

Shalei Simms 

Margaret 

Torrell

 

 

Consultant

Gladys 

Schrynemakers