SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, December 5, 2003

12:30-1:50 pm

Present: K. Velsor, E. Linger, R.J. Edelson, L. Cox, R. Brown, M. Colaneri, I. Ahmed,
A. Martinez, D. Quarless, H. Lewittes, C. Ottenheimer.
Visitors: P. Smith, W. Lupardo, R. Welton, L. Anker, J. Ziev, N. Sacks, R. Gonzalez,
D. Stalker

Report from Faculty Senate Chair (Kate Velsor):
Faculty request for $500 to pay to each of two outside evaluators for the purpose of
completing departmental five-year reviews will be no problem for the administration.
The Chair was denied her request for a faculty workshop for those candidates who are
interested in applying for the Chancellor’s awards. The Committee felt the Old
Westbury Faculty Bylaws contain the requirements for each award and they are listed
on the Chancellor’s website. Previous files are not available due to privacy issues.
The Committee may offer a better source of suggestions than a workshop.
This is the last meeting of the semester and the next meeting will be January 30, 2004.
The President’s report and the Treasurer’s report were postponed until the next meeting
on January 30, 2004.
Il.

Report from Academic Vice President (Dr. Lawrence Cox):

Graduate Program in Accounting has been postponed to fall due to a lack of enrollment
of graduate students.
All faculty members should push students to enroll now for the coming semester.
The Teacher Education Department is applying for national accreditation through the
National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCAT)

The School of

Business is re-applying for certification.
There was a discussion about the NCAT process. Each of the academic programs that
offer concentrations for education students and whose majors are eligible for
certification will need to be involved in the NCAT process.
Schedule changes have been discussed as a means to reach a critical mass of 5000

students on campus.

Classes will be offered earlier to help to reverse the loss of

students and to begin to offer students a more academic environment.
A committee will be formed to determine what the OSSD office needs in order to

facilitate the academic programs of the 20 to 30 students who are currently served.

Spring registration — 65 of 500 classes are already full.
Within the Teacher Ed program, four areas of liberal arts concentration (psychology,
philosophy and religion, labor relations and sociology) have been eliminated, and no
grandfathering is allowed. However, Ron Welton clarified that students wha already
have several courses prior to declaring a Teacher Ed major can finish and if there are
questions, they should see Mr. Welton.

The First Year Experience has been a very important and rich experience. 8 am and 8 pm
classes are convenient for first year students and/or evening school students,
respectively.
III.

Report from the Old Westbury Foundation (Rich Brown):
The Taste of Long Island netted $60,500. Funds have been set aside for 19 faculty
development grants (total of $25,000) plus $25,000 for Presidential Scholars, plus
$10,000 in unrestricted funds.

Other funds raised and dispersed were for the Employee Giving Scholarship, the
Hispanic Cultural Center, and the Athletic Department’s “Midnight Madness.”
The President’s reception on November 2 attracted more people from the neighborhood.
Request for recommendations for the Board.
Request that corporations and foundations may be able to work with needs of
departments.

Faculty were represented at the Polo event (K. Velsor) and the IPAC (P. O’Sullivan).
Of the $500,000 goal, $200,000 has been raised as of November 30, 2003.

IV.

ARPT report (Laura Anker):
The problems with last year’s decisions were because ARPT did not obtain the record of
the Administration’s decisions until September 24, 2003. In fact, many faculty
received re-appointment, tenure and promotion letters later than September.
In the fall 2002: of 9 cases, 7 were reappointed and 2 were reappointed and promoted.
There were some disagreements on length of appointment between the departments,
the ARPT and the administration.
In the spring 2003: of 13 cases, 5 reappointments, 6 for tenure and promotion, and 2 for
promotion only; 4 were reappointed, 1 non-reappointment; of the 6, 4 were promoted
with tenure, one was promoted to Assistant Professor, and one was awarded tenure

but without promotion; for promotion only, both were promoted.
Different departments have different standards (in service and other standard
expectations), which raises the question of whether we should make the standards
consistent.
There is a proposed bylaws change on professional development standards for tenure and
promotion: that candidates must be reviewed by outside reviewers.
Discussion developed concerning the need for consistency between departments.
Difficulty of having consistent standards, the administration and ARPT disagreed on
roughly more than half of all cases, including on what is a refereed journal, and what
is adequate service.

Furthermore, there are differences within departments, and over

how to consider outside letters. Some issues of disagreement relate to succession of
three academic vice presidents in three years; however, the greatest disagreement was
over the length of reappointment. (one, two or three years)
Workshop to discuss the ARPT manual is a good idea.
Motion by Hedva Lewittes to approve the minutes of the November 21 meeting had to
be postponed due to lack of a quorum.

VI.

New Business:
committee.

OSSD committee — Joel Ziev volunteered not to chair but to serve on the

Meeting was adjourned at 1:50 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Eloise Linger, Secretary-Treasurer and Senator for PES