M.Keizer:

Hovering over our plans for the future is the fact that our 6 -year

graduation rate is 21%. Grad. Programs are all very well and good, but we need to
consider the implications of this graduation rate. Though the first year retention rate
is 75%, our graduation rates are dismal. We should call ourselves the College of the
First year! There is no sense of urgency in entire Guidance document about this awful

fact.

We should talk about our aspirations about bettering our graduation rates.

L. Walsh: Students attrit because of our lack of cleanliness in physical environment,
advisement, Registrars Office and Guidance document should reflect these issues.

M. Keizer:

Yes we should set goals for those, but Guidance document should reflect

our aspirations and concern for grad rates as well.
P. O’Sullivan: Along with M. M. Bell and three others from OW as well as others from
System, he (P. Sullivan) had met with D. Miller (past Vice Chancellor, SUNY) and
Chancellor and President Butts had signed off on 3 goals for OW:
a. Grow enrollment
b. Change image (facilities, graduation rates etc)

c. Achieve financial equilibrium.
How are we doing that? And what will we do if the $3 million subsidy is removed?
C. Hobson: Formal consultation (between governance and administration) has been
slapdash, and may have led to reports concluding that it was non-existent. Things
like Dean structure need substantive consultation.

Though CAP statement on faculty

lines bypasses some of the issues raised by current Guidance Document, what about
other things that are impacted by faculty lines such as class sizes etc how will
guidance document address that?
E.Bever: 121 is starting point for faculty lines, grad programs provide additional
revenue to support additional faculty. But if student numbers increase, then reliance
on adjuncts will also increase. Student/faculty ratios should be kept low as well as
adjunct faculty teaching should be kept low as well. These issues have not been
addressed in Guidance document.
L. Cox: Guidance document should address what we said we would do and what we
have done and what we are going to do from here. This (Guidance document) is not a
strategic plan,
G. Snedeker: Document should specify the areas of student dissatisfaction and should
address specifically what Administration is doing to address issues of dissatisfaction
raised in student survey.
M. Bell:_
Student satisfaction Survey (SUNY) raised issues that prompted OW
Retention Committee to work on Continuing student Survey, which has raised specific
issues that we are working on.
P. Q’Sullivan: Student demand of TE is high and TE is very important for changing
image of OW as well as increasing enrollment. They should be thinking of increasing
faculty and other areas of growth.
B.Serrano: We have just hired new faculty, and replacements. We have good
enrollment in Elementary Education, but low in Secondary and Middle Childhood. We
are doing fine with present structure.
M. Keizer: Sections of document need rewriting and need editing. Many questions
are not answered, and many answers provided seem to be obfuscations. This
document is not ready for export yet.

Maybe we need Deans of Syntax and Grammar.