Call for Proposals: Faculty Innovation Laboratory
SUNY Old Westbury
The COVID crisis, ironically, has had the positive outcome of inspiring exploration in new instructional methods. Many
Old Westbury faculty are now at the cutting edge of distance instruction. The campus now faces a challenge and an
opportunity. The challenge is how to capture the positive benefits of this year of experimentation and growth for our
campus and our students. The opportunity is to pool shared knowledge and provide a means to acknowledge the
progress we have made, individually and collectively.
The health situation remains unclear, but we are operating on the assumption that we will be returning to primarily
campus-based instruction in Fall 2021. For those faculty who wish to continue using the new Remote and
Hybrid/Blended modalities in Fall 2021, we offer a temporary option that allows you to translate current expertise
and active participation in training into a valuable credential.*
The TLRC, CETL, and Office of Distance Learning invite faculty to submit proposals for an Innovation Laboratory, in Spring
2021. Over the course of the semester, our own creative faculty will conduct interactive, one-hour sessions to share
innovative tools, techniques, and strategies that enhance student engagement and learning in featured components of
distance instruction.
Innovation Laboratory sessions may cover high- or low-tech tools, techniques or strategies suitable for a) Remote
(synchronous (live) activities), or b) Hybrid/Blended (inter-connected synchronous and asynchronous activities that work
in tandem).
Faculty who have experience with Remote and Hybrid/Blended formats from the Pivot online in March 2020 and/or
teaching in them in the Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 semesters, will be considered to have foundational knowledge
sufficient to teach Remote and Hybrid/Blended courses in Fall 2021 or beyond, provided they participate in the Spring
2021 Innovation Laboratory in one of the following ways:
•
•

Active participation in at least three sessions led by others, and thereby being recognized by the TLRC,
CETL, and Distance Learning as obtaining Practitioner status in Remote (synchronous online) or
Hybrid/Blended (inter-connected synchronous/asynchronous instruction), or;
Facilitation of a session (twice, once during the semester and once between commencement and June 15)
and active participation in one other session, thereby being recognized by the TLRC, CETL, and Distance
Learning as obtaining both Practitioner status (as above), and Instructional Innovator status.

As with earlier formal asynchronous, hybrid/blended, and flex training, both Remote Learning Practitioner and Innovator
statuses will be considered by Academic Affairs as significant instructional service in DSI decisions.
The Innovation Laboratory allows faculty and the College to recognize its shared knowledge base and experience during
the COVID crisis. Those who do not participate in the Innovation Laboratory in Spring 2021, and wish to teach Remote or
Hybrid/Blended courses in Fall 2021 and beyond, will be expected to complete more formal training comparable to the
asynchronous and hybrid/blended trainings required prior Spring 2020 pivot.
Applications to facilitate an Innovation Lab session in Spring 2021 are due by Friday, February 19, 2021. To apply, please
complete the online application at via Microsoft forms:
https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=NJAI9TPyEk-nFji39JBDcHU36_d8ibFFr5gkmAxnARUQUwwVUlQWU4zREpQWTlFUzdQN0hROE42TC4u
*

As with all matters of scheduling, decisions about course modality are made by departments, and are subject to approval by School
and Academic Affairs. Qualification to teach remotely therefore does not guarantee scheduling of any specific course in this
modality. Distance learning policies, including those relating to faculty presence on campus, continue to apply.