Photo by Tim Mossholder on Unsplash

Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources (OER) Committee
Committee Objectives
The Committee was constituted for the purposes of:
• Creating policies and procedures for developing and implementing OER curricula;
• Assessing course syllabi to determine whether they qualify to be designated an OER course,
according to established criteria;
• Setting policies for the allocation of SUNY OER funding (as available) to support campus OER
initiatives;
• Assessing needs and recommending resources to support faculty teaching OER courses;
• Cultivating resources to support the College’s OER programs;
• Developing relationships across the campus to sustain a long‐term OER program; and
• Reporting to the Senate at least once each semester on OER activities, promotion, and
sustainability initiatives.
What is OER?
OER are teaching, learning, and research materials that reside in the public domain or have been
released under an intellectual property license that permits repurposing by others—and therefore
are free or low-cost to students. Using openly-licensed content gives instructors more academic
freedom since they are allowed to adapt and integrate materials into their classes in new and
unconventional ways.
Current Events & Agenda Items
• “Bridging the Divide with Open Educational Resources Faculty Roundtable”, Date TBA
Featuring presentations and discussion with OW faculty who teach with OER.
• “Economics of Textbooks and Open Education Activism!”, April 1, 2021
Veronika Dolar will give a presentation for students on the high cost of textbooks and what
students can and have done about it. This event is co-sponsored by the SGA and Ad Hoc OER
Committee.
• Review draft syllabi for summer/fall courses to determine if they meet the criteria to be
registered as OER courses in the registration system and with SUNY.
Join Us!
If you taught at least one course with OER or simply have an interest in OER and open education,
this is the committee for you! Members are not elected. To join this committee or if you would like
to know more, contact Veronika Dolar (dolarv@oldwestbury.edu) or Joanne Spadaro
(spadaroj@oldwestbury.edu).
Committee Members, Sp21
Christa DeVirgilio, secretary (Library), Veronika Dolar, co-chair (PEL), John Estes (Ch/PH), Barbara
Hillery (Academic Affairs), Chante Hope (Library), Svetlana Jovic (PY), Chandra Shehigian
(Instructional Design), Joanne Spadaro, co-chair (Library), Cheyenne Sze (SGA)