Chair’s Report 3-4 (Senate postponed from 2-25)

As we look forward to a the creation of a School of Arts and Sciences, we need to inform ourselves on dean

structure and discuss them in order to shape our expectations and convey them to administration. This will be a
great opportunity to shape curriculum we want that is consistent with the campus mission. The identity of the
school—between departments and the College—needs to be defined so that faculty who are within it are fully

invested in its mission, and so that all faculty regard it as a coherent and meaningful entity. Faculty governance
will be affected: as I understand it now, there is no question that the Senate will remain as a college-wide body.
While its role may be lessened in some respect, it will gain in importance as the single, strongest voice and
forum for faculty, along with staff and students, across departmental and divisional lines.

Building relationships will be essential in the process of forging new structures and pursuing our three major
goals: increasing enrollment, improving the extent to which we convey quality (requiring, among other things,

improved retention and graduation rates), and achieving financial equilibrium. We need to build relationships
between faculty, especially across department lines. To do that, we need to communicate. We need to be

present to each other, to share ideas, listen and learn. I am going to urge you to do something that may be
unprecedented in the past 20 years of the College. Give one month of your time—four working weeks—to the
College between Commencement and the beginning of the Fall 2005 semester. If you’re on Middle States or
another demanding committee, or if you are teaching, you will already be doing this. If not, sign up for

advising; sign up for Academic Standing hearings. Work in your office or in the library. Be present here.
Telecommuting has its value.

But it is when we see each other; talk with each other; exchange ideas that the

campus will begin to feel like a college making progress, and we will begin to trust in the possibility of change.
As another step in that direction, I have asked the AVP to provide a faculty lounge, with a target date of April 1,
not only as a place for faculty to relax but to exchange ideas. TLC has been working very hard this semester to

create lively and interesting forums for faculty to present and learn from one another’s work—there was a good
turnout for Dr. Mukherji’s presentation on South Asian immigrants following the last Full Faculty meeting.
The Faculty Lounge can become a setting for many more such presentations.

To move toward our goals, the academic division of the College needs its full due share of funding. By the
figures of the latest budget, that share now is well below that accepted norm of around 60%: it is below 50%.
We need to ask why, and we need to offer both the analytical and creative means by which improvements can
come about. This coming Monday, the Faculty Senate Executive Committee will meet with BPC faculty to
consider how governance and BPC can work together to facilitate the exchange of information that makes

constructive change happen.

The Registrar’s Office has submitted data for the Academic Standing Hearings for this past January. (Question
was raised as to why the Academic Standing Committee is not reporting this information.) The ASC did report
to the Senate last Fall, but the committee is currently without a chair. In fact, the Bylaws exclude ASC from
having to report to the Senate, although it is not clear why this is so.
The Executive Committee has met several times, both separately and with the Academic Vice President. In
addition to the school structure, we have the initiation of Middle States and other initiatives. I will give the
floor to Dr. O’Sullivan to brief you on these and other important initiatives.

First Spring Faculty Senate Mtg. Spring 2005
Budget Planning Committee Thomas DelGiudice
INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS
The Budget Planning Committee met for the first time on December 17" after some
rangling over its membership with the Faculty Executive Committee. We also met on
January 21, 2005.

The President as per the Senate’s request will be discussing the projects for the Academic

Village later in the semester.

There will be meetings between architects and faculty to assess needs and ideas

renovations of the classrooms and public spaces. Meeting times will be announced with
enough leas time.

PACKET OF ATTACHED

INFORMATION

Capital Projects funds remain for unforeseen or additional projects, cost overruns etc
e

Overview of Capital Projects
Generic SUCF Project Timeline
Estimated Timeline for Academic Village

SEMPRA Timeline

Academic Village Comfort & Air Quality
Proposal for a Strategic Plan 2006-2011
Proposal for Faculty Membership ON BPC

NEW INITIATIVE

Among the initiatives beginning for this calendar year 2005 is a Strategic Plan for the

next five years. Among the documents to be drawn upon will be Middle States Report,

Mission Review II as well as issues arising in the NCATE process.

Mission Review II is just a start and is ongoing, what needs to be done next is to look at
the pieces, set priorities, get specific, matchup resources, and make timelines. Make a
Strategic Plan that is operational. Dr. Butts would like to see it done over this calendar

year.

The BPC will break into subgroups such as Academic Program Development,

Institutional Advancement and Image, Enrollment and Retention, Physical Plant

Initiatives, and Technology. (see subgroup handout) None of these are cast in stone and
are open to change.

Members have volunteered for subgroups and they will be meeting soon and looking to

reach out to various constituencies from faculty and administrative committees for input.
(See attached diagram)

In my 20 years of serving at the College it is my opinion that this is our best shot at
actually pulling off a five year plan where the faculty can make genuine contributions. I
am anxious to know if there is a critical mass of talent and skill on the both the faculty
and administration to do this job. I would like us to work together in the effort. But we

will need to recognize that there is no monopoly on dysfunction in any part of this

campus. If we are honest we would admit that all of our departments have issues that

need work. There is much work to be done in improving administrative functions as well
as improving on faculty execution in our responsibilities.

We will need to check our egos at the door and look to build the institution.
This is a real opportunity to begin to make the College the way we would like.
Will the process be perfect?
Will everyone get what they want?
Do we have such resources as to do major new initiatives?
The answer to these questions is probably not. It won’t live up to everyone’s expectations
but it can be good plan that is fair to the different components of the college.
There is always going to be openness to new initiatives that have potential but in the
Strategic Plan we will have to outline specific activities, resources, outcomes and a plan
for assessment. The emphasis will be on quality education, improving our image and
obtaining financial equilibrium by getting better performance and execution across the
campus as well as developing initiatives that give us more exposure on L.I..