Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                            Friday, March 6, 2015

                            Full Faculty Meeting

Members of the Faculty Present: Kathleen Velsor (Chair, presiding), Robert
   Gero (Secretary/Treasurer), Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian), Minna
   Barrett (University Faculty Senator), Kathie Greenberg (Senator At-
   Large), Alonzo McCollum (professional), Ana Martinez (Professional),
   Laura Anker (FYE), Curt Friehs (Library), Lingxian Li (Accounting),
   Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education),
      Sanja Cale (Exceptional Education), Laura Chipley (American Studies),
   Juan P. Galvis (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Angel Lara (Modern
   Languages), Edislav Manetovic (PEL), Runi Mukherji (Psychology), Ashlee
   Lien (Psychology), Shijian Li (Public Health), Amanda Shigihara
   (Sociology), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLC).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Calvin Butts (President), Mary
   Marquez Bell (VP Enrollment), Wayne Edwards (VP Student Affairs), Barbara
   Hillery (SAS Dean), Julio Gonzalez (SOE Dean).

Visitors Present: Carolina Bustamante (SOE),  Wen-Wen Chien (SOB), John
   Friedman (American Studies), Stephen Kirkpatric (LIB), Joseph Manfredi
   (American Studies), Myeshia Price (PSY), Duncan Quarless (CP), Samantha
   Quinn (Health/Student Affairs), Brian Schwirzbin (Student Conduct),
   Shalei Simms (SOB).

 Call to Order: 12:34 pm


 Approval of the Minutes of October 3, 2014

       Minutes not available.

 Senate Chair’s Report

    • The resolution requesting that the Faculty Senate chair get
      compensation was sent to the Provost’s office for consideration and it
      was denied.
    • In November our Faculty Senate was asked to review the SUNY Excel
      Performance Matrix. The Executive Committee worked with the Faculty
      Senate to create a lengthy report clarifying each point of the Matrix
      after coming to an agreement on how Old Westbury should respond to
      each indicator. In December this report was sent to Peter Kneufer,
      SUNY Senate Chair, for consideration.
    • In our December Senate meeting, Albert Bacchius, our student
      representative for SGA, made a presentation that moved the faculty to
      take action in response to two events (Ferguson Missouri and the Eric
      Gardner case) that culminated in many demonstrations in New York City
      in December 2014. He discussed his concerns and the Faculty Senate
      decided to take action by organizing a vigil to hear students’
      concerns and to give direction for student involvement. The vigil was
      shown via Old Westbury TV and was a great success.
    • We gave suggestions in our last meeting for ideas for celebrating the
      50th Anniversary of SUNY Old Westbury and the 50th Anniversary
      Committee positively received them. We are working in concert with the
      campus wide committee through shared governance to plan campus wide
      events to celebrate our college mission.
    • Minna Barrett and I attended the SUNY University Faculty Plenary at
      SUNY Farmingdale on January 22, 23, and 24. Minna will give a full
      report later in the meeting about this plenary. I want to thank this
      Faculty Senate and the Executive Committee for all of their work in
      response to SUNY Excels. Some changes and suggestions have been taken
      into consideration as a result of our participation.
    • In February the Faculty Senate voted on the resolution for reinstating
      the quantitative portion on the student evaluation form. This
      resolution was the result of four years of discussion in three
      different committees. The faculty was asked by the Provost to come up
      with a form that the faculty approved. There was a pilot program
      online completed by Kathy Greenberg in June 2011 and the results
      showed that students do not respond to online surveys; it also showed
      those who did respond have a greater than 3.0 average. Dr. Heller,
      Faculty Senate Chair 2012-2013, was asked by the Provost to take more
      action and his committee felt that the instrument accepted by the
      Faculty Senate in the 1990s was a valid instrument. He used it online
      and in class and found students did not respond the same way in both
      evaluations. Dr. Murphy approached the Provost on considering buying a
      Scranton printer for the purpose of the evaluations. The Evaluations
      Committee created a resolution to reinstate the quantitate evaluations
      and to buy a Scranton machine.
    • Provost O’Sullivan and I agreed to reconvene the ARBC and look at our
      Strategic Plan and the SUNY Excels matrix as we need to see where the
      commonalities are to allow us to construct a solid response to Excels
      and to create targets that will promote the ideas that the campus
      community decided were important issues.
    • Minna’s report will discuss other issues related to this performance
      assessment. Through shared governance we will have a strong voice in
      this process.
    • The Election Committee has extended the date to send the nominations
      for the upcoming election until March 27th. Nominations can be printed
      and sent to the Faculty Senate office or just returned to Werner or
      Dinorah via e-mail.

President’s Report


    • The State Budget is going to remove 8 million dollars in funds for
      contracted personnel increases. The personnel that we hope might be
      included in the governor’s budget will not have to be absorbed by us.
      The Governor also planned an increase in overall funding of 18 million
      dollars because of the move by SUNY to create new Performance
      Improvement Plans connected to the idea of SUNY Excels. These plans
      will require 10 % of annual state tax support to be held back from
      campuses until they comply with the SUNY Excels plans.
      SUNY Excels will serve as a basis for performance funding allocation
      in future years.  So our funding will be determined on the basis of
      how well we perform according to these areas: Improving Access,
      improving completion, academic and post-graduation success, research,
      and community engagement.
      We are already outstanding in some of these areas but we might face
      some challenges in others.
      SUNY Excels provides a financial incentive to presidents who prove
      leadership resulting in commercialization of research through START UP
      NY.
      On Capital Expenses, the Governor has only proposed 29 million system
      wide for critical maintenance. A minimum of 19 million has been set
      aside for Stony Brook alone. Last month we received an overview from
      the State University Construction Fund of the capital funds available.
      We don’t know what is going to happen regarding capital dollars for
      the SUNY System and for Old Westbury in particular.
      The Chancellor and SUNY Government Relation Team believe that there is
      support in the Assembly and Senate to increase capital spending.
      There are other priorities in the Budget discussion like the re-
      authorization of the rational tuition policy through 2020 and the
      creation of a SUNY Investment Fund to pay for the performance plan
      funding. The fund will expand educational opportunity across the
      system.
      The University Faculty Senate has shown its support through a
      resolution for an increased SUNY Budget request.

      Dr. Butts yielded the word to Dr. Barrett.
      Between the indices we can pick and choose certain categories but we
      have not been told yet what the Matrix structures are. The Chancellor
      agrees diversity is something that should be throughout every single
      category. University Faculty Senate voted to do this and now it is
      part of the Governor’s expectations and it is funded.
      The Chancellor asked for 15 million dollars for 3 years in order to
      initiate this. We are not going to be penalized. We will have the
      money to take a look at indices that we pick. Among the categories,
      Access and Completion will probably be required. We will be able to
      select the other categories that we feel reflect us best. If we don’t
      submit a plan on time, then 10% of the money we would get from the 18
      million dollars will automatically be deducted. The due date to submit
      the Plan is December 31, 2015. Even if it were to be submitted on
      time, the Plan would still need to be approved by the Board of
      Trustees to retain the 10 %.
      We are going to start the work of choosing which categories from the
      matrix indices make sense to be benchmarking and then we will have a
      plan to send to Faculty.
      They will be able to comment on it and we will be looking at what the
      indicators should be, where the measurements should take place and so
      on.


      Dr. Butts continue: SUNY University Faculty Senate is asking us to ask
      you to sign the card we brought to the meeting related to the budget
      to send to the State University as well as to the State Government. We
      are meeting with legislators in Albany shortly to talk about the SUNY
      budget. I don’t like the budget and think that there is some work we
      should do to have it modified.
      Some of our student leaders on campus are already working on
      supporting the plan and we are working on scheduling a meeting with
      local politicians and will bring students to the meeting so they can
      make their case there.
      Thanks to Dr. Velsor and Dr. Barrett for coming to help us on the
      celebration of our 50th Anniversary. We had a tremendous turn out and
      our new marketing campaign was introduced. We have several goals for
      the 50th anniversary celebration. The first is to recognize and
      celebrate the many contributions the college has made during the 50
      past years. Another is to raise the college profile for the local
      community and to establish the foundation upon which a successful,
      future, Old Westbury College can be built.
      We have been in conversation with Congressman John Lewis to come to
      our campus and be one of our primary speakers. He is looking into his
      schedule for availability.
      I agree with Dr. Barrett on the fact that Old Westbury College is way
      out in front in many of the areas in the Matrix. I think we are in
      good position, not only with the work we have done, our history, our
      diversity, but also in a good situation politically to continue our
      negotiations in this regard.

Provost’s Report

           Provost unable to attend

Old Business.

    • Ballots and Elections
      We need representatives for ARPT two tenured people from SAS and one
      tenured faculty from School of Education to run on the ballot. We also
      need two people to work on the Faculty University Awards Committee.

New Business


    • SUNY Old Westbury budget concerns (Len Davis)


      The specific indicators for the SUNY Excels plan have not been
      identified. This is a system level concern.
      Even when SUNY says they have finalized the indicators, it will only
      be an approximation. We don’t have specific indicators for the campus.
      After finalizing Matrix, the state system and our campus will commit
      to goal areas and we will go from there. That process is not on
      schedule either. Withholding 10% of the funding is supposed to be the
      stimulus to make each campus develop a plan, but even if the 10% is
      offset with new money, it will still impact our cash flow. We will
      only have a third of 18 million dollars by December 31. Right now the
      emphasis is getting the plan together since we don’t have the final
      parameters. The 18 million funding is only for this year.


      My concern is about what you heard regarding the budget at this point.
      All of you have seen what we have done in the past few years with the
      money that was received and you still can see work taking place on the
      buildings throughout campus. That takes a lot of funding and with the
      drastic reduction of the Old Westbury Budget, it almost brings us to
      the point where the only thing we can do is repairs. The only way we
      can get money is through legislative favors. Our spending as it is now
      is 2.7 million. We started out last year with 9.7 million, then after
      changes it went down to 7.6 million. The allocation for the State
      University was reduced from 500 the prior year to 200. We are in the
      position now where we need to be very critical and judicial on what
      items we are working on. The Construction Fund has visited our campus
      a couple of times since this change has occurred and they are working
      with us to give us a little more money. There are promising
      initiatives there.
      The other concern is about TAP, which is a grant to be used to fund
      the tuition for our students. TAP maximum is now $5,165 and our
      tuition is now $6,195. This makes a difference of $1,030 and the SUNY
      Tuition Credit that is supposed to make up for most of that, won’t
      make up for everything. We are trying to make sure that the amount of
      TAP plus the tuition credit covers the tuition. But, as the tuition
      increases, the gap grows wider and it falls on the school to make up
      that difference.
      Also another concern that we have is related to the funding for the
      mandatory salary increases. You have the 2% that is coming. They gave
      us about $115,000 dollars to fund this increase. We can say they tried
      to help with salary increases.


    • Resolutions on the Budget (Minna Barrett)

      This resolution takes into account what the Governor's Budget is
asking us to give      up and what we want to do about it. It is a draft at
this point. We will vote     electronically for this resolution.
      Some faculty senators felt that a whereas clause it should be added to
      the draft stating that the Governor's Budget now connects TAP and the
      passage of the Dream Act to the Education Tax Credit, which is direct
      credit for donations to private schools and these should be
      disconnected. Faculty, along with the President's Office, Mike Kinane
      and others should disseminate this resolution across campus to build
      support and help students understand it. Those who have connections to
      members of State Assembly can also send it to them.
      Dr. Barret added that this is going to require taking action. Maybe we
      won't have what we need by April 1st, but we have to continue to fight
      because there will be another budget next year.

Student code of Conduct (Wayne Edwards, Brian Schwirzbin)

    • A lot of members of our faculty don't want to send reports to the
      Judicial Committee, being afraid that the student might be suspended
      or expelled; so I asked our Chair to take a few minutes to talk about
      the Judicial Process.
      Almost 98% of cases we have go through the administrative process
      where students have to meet with me. The first time a student has
      classroom behavior issues that are reported to the University Police
      this is considered a disruption and it ends with a verbal warning. If
      a student is reported a second time, then they will be placed on
      probation. The third time is when we begin to consider having the
      student removed from campus. If the student gets suspended the case
      will pass to the Board.
      The Student Code of Conduct is used as a guide, but the Board uses
      common sense when it comes to making its recommendations. The Student
      Code of Conduct has not changed for a while and we are looking to
      revise it next year with the approval of the Faculty Senate.


    • 50th Anniversary Celebration (Zenaida Madurka)
      Several people have been invited to participate in activities during
      our 50th Anniversary Celebration and the HLCC has taken an active role
      in organizing activities including a jazz recital to be part of the
      celebration.

Motion to Adjourn: 2:27 pm