0¢

(¢) sxakojdury woay y.0ddng Jo s.193)0'J - 7 xIpueddy

Appendix 5 — New Course Syllabi

36

G. REFERENCES
Guide to Business Valuations (14th Ed., Practitioner’s Publishing Company).
Harvard Case Studies

FATF, 2003. FATF on Money Laundering: The
http://www1 .oecd.org/fatf/pdf/40Recs-2003_en.pdf.

Forty

Recommendations.

Available

at

Term Project:

A comprehensive project that explores a major area of white-collar crime will be
completed in teams.

articles, Internet on the types of plans, including flat tax and

national sales tax.
Week 15

FINAL EXAM

Appendix 7 — External Evaluators’ Reports (2)

37

Appendix 8 — Institutional Response to External Evaluators’ Reports

38

STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Proposal for
Master of Science in Forensic Accounting

Campus Response to Site Visit Reports

SCHOOL

OF BUSINESS

August 2015

counseling; participation in educational, informational, and recruiting events; and the
utilization of career related resources. In addition, the SOB has a Director of Career

Services, External Relations & Administration who provides essentially the same
services, but with a focus on business students. Neither of these offices is equipped to
provide much assistance in degree development.
¢

Recommendation 15 — Economic resources allocated to market this program
(Lubinski): Due to its limited marketing resources, Old Westbury traditionally has not

done degree-specific marketing or maintained degree-specific marketing budgets.

Notwithstanding this, when a new degree is launched, we do perform target
marketing to announce its availability, which we will also do for this Program,

e

Recommendation 3 (Kranacher): “The School of Business should consider forming
an advisory board, if one is not already in place.” The SOB already has an Advisory
Board made up of local business leaders, including alumni and accounting

professionals. Its involvement with the development of this Program is discussed in
Section 2.3.¢. of the Proposal.

e

Recommendation 4a (Kranacher): “Guest speakers may be brought into the classes, as
needed, to complement the faculty’s knowledge, skill, and abilities.” The
recommendation is accepted and has already been incorporated in Fraud Examination
(BU7560) and Case Studies in Fraud Examination (BU7561), and will be

incorporated into the other course where applicable. See syllabi in Appendix 5.

¢

Recommendation to hire diverse faculty for this program (Kranacher & Lubinski):
This recommendation is accepted. Old Westbury is an Equal Opportunity/A ffirmative
Action Employee. All qualified applicants receive consideration for employment.

¢

Recommendation to allocate professional development monies to ensure that faculty
remain current in their field (Kranacher[7.B.] & Lubinski [15]): The SOB provides

financial support for the scholarly activities and professional development of all its

faculty, including those who will be teaching in this program. It is the College policy
not to reimburse faculty just for attending CPE (Continuing Professional Education)

events.

e

Recommendation 5 (Kranacher): Additional library resources to consider. We will
consider adding the suggested resources to our library collection.

The two reports from the external reviewers provided concrete strategies to improve the
focus and scope of the degree. The College plans to adopt the strongly recommended
changes as soon as practicable, beginning with the immediate adoption of changes in course
titles, course descriptions, and course prerequisites. In addition, we plan to address all of the

smaller suggestions outlined in the bulleted list above. We believe that we have addressed in

detailed in this Response all of the reviewers’ concerns and recommendations.