Resolution for the Proposal for
Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting
WHEREAS, the School of Business Graduate Programs proposed to create an Advanced
Certificate in Forensic Accounting, and
WHEREAS, a proposed program consists of fifteen-credits of graduate-level coursework, and
WHEREAS, a proposed program offers an opportunity for students to gain a knowledge of
forensic accounting and auditing, and
WHEREAS, a proposed program offers a valuable credential to students who wish to pursue
advanced study in the field, but may not be ready to commit to a Master’s program,
and
WHEREAS, courses accrued through a proposed program may be utilized towards the 150credit requirement for a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), if a student decides to
pursue it, and
WHEREAS, courses accrued through a proposed program may be utilized towards earning a
MS in Forensic Accounting, if a student decides to pursue it, and
WHEREAS, there is a growing labor market demand for this specialized skills of accounting
and auditing, and
WHEREAS, there is no other public institution on Long Island that offers an advanced
certificate in this field, and
WHEREAS, the proposed program consists of courses within the existing MS in Forensic
Accounting program and does not require any additional resources,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the Proposal for
Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), May 24, 2021
The proposal approved by CAP, May 24, 2021
[CAP Membership]
Tejas Bouklas, Svetlana Jovic, Yu Lei, Matthew Lippert, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Sheyi Oladipo,
Dana Sinclair, Kerry Weir, and Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)
The Proposal approved by the Faculty Senate by unanimous consent on 5/28/2021.

New Program Proposal:
Certificate or Advanced Certificate Program
Form 2C
Version 2016-10-13

This form should be used to seek SUNY’s approval and New York State Education Department’s (SED) registration of a
proposed new academic program leading to a certificate or an advanced certificate. Approval and registration are both
required before a proposed program can be promoted or advertised, or can enroll students. The campus Chief Executive or
Chief Academic Officer should send a signed cover letter and this completed form (unless a different form applies1), which
should include appended items that may be required for Sections 1 through 5 and 10 of this form, to the SUNY Provost at
program.review@suny.edu. The completed form and appended items should be sent as a single, continuously paginated
document.2 If Sections 7 and 8 of this form apply, External Evaluation Reports and a single Institutional Response should
also be sent, but in a separate electronic document. Guidance on academic program planning is available here.

Table of Contents
NOTE: Please update this Table of Contents automatically after the form has been completed. To do this, put the
cursor anywhere over the Table of Contents, right click, and, on the pop-up menus, select “Update Field” and then
“Update Page Numbers Only.” The last item in the Table of Contents is the List of Appended and/or Accompanying Items,
but the actual appended items should continue the pagination.
Section 1. General Information ............................................................................................................................................... 2
Section 2. Program Information .............................................................................................................................................. 3
2.1. Program Format .................................................................................................................................................. 3
2.2. Related Degree Programs.................................................................................................................................... 3
2.3. Program Description, Purposes and Planning ..................................................................................................... 3
2.4. Admissions.......................................................................................................................................................... 8
2.5. Academic and Other Support Services ............................................................................................................... 8
2.6. Prior Learning Assessment ................................................................................................................................. 9
2.7. Program Assessment and Improvement .............................................................................................................. 9
Section 3. Program Schedule and Curriculum ..................................................................................................................... 10
Section 4. Faculty................................................................................................................................................................. 13
Section 5. Financial Resources and Instructional Facilities ................................................................................................. 16
Section 6. Library Resources ............................................................................................................................................... 16
Section 7. External Evaluation ............................................................................................................................................. 16
Section 8. Institutional Response to External Evaluator Reports......................................................................................... 16
Section 9. SUNY Undergraduate Transfer........................................................................................................................... 17
Section 10. Application for Distance Education .................................................................................................................. 18
Section MPA-1. Need for Master Plan Amendment and/or Degree Authorization ............................................................. 18
List of Appended Items ......................................................................................................................................................... 18

1Use

a different form if the proposed new program will lead to a graduate degree or any credit-bearing certificate; be a combination of
existing registered programs (i.e. for a multi-award or multi-institution program); be a breakout of a registered track or option in an
existing registered program; or lead to certification as a classroom teacher, school or district leader, or pupil personnel services
professional (e.g., school counselor).
2
This email address limits attachments to 25 MB. If a file with the proposal and appended materials exceeds that limit, it should be
emailed in parts.

1

Section 1. General Information
a)
Institutional
Information

Date of Proposal: May 1, 2021
Institution’s 6-digit SED Code: 234000
Institution’s Name: SUNY Old Westbury
Address: P. O. Box 210, Old Westbury, NY 11568
Dept of Labor/Regent’s Region: Long Island, NY

b)
Program
Locations

c)
Proposed
Program
Information

List each campus where the entire program will be offered (with each institutional or branch campus
6-digit SED Code): Old Westbury 23400
List the name and address of off-campus locations (i.e., extension sites or extension centers) where
courses will offered, or check here [ x ] if not applicable:
Program Title: Forensic Accounting
Award(s) (e.g., Certificate.): Advanced Certificate
Number of Required Credits: Minimum [ 15 ] If tracks or options, largest minimum [

]

Proposed HEGIS Code: 0502.10
Proposed 6-digit CIP 2010 Code: 52.1601
If the program will be accredited, list the accrediting agency and expected date of accreditation: N/A
If applicable, list the SED professional licensure title(s)3 to which the program leads: N/A
d)
Campus
Contact

Name and title: Duncan Quarlass, Provost and Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs

e)
Chief Executive
or Chief
Academic
Officer
Approval

Signature affirms that the proposal has met all applicable campus administrative and shared governance
procedures for consultation, and the institution’s commitment to support the proposed program.
E-signatures are acceptable.

Telephone:

516-876-3135

E-mail: quarlessd@oldwestbury.edu

Name and title:
Signature and date:
If the program will be registered jointly4 with one or more other institutions, provide the following
information for each institution:
Partner institution’s name and 6-digit SED Code:
Name, title, and signature of partner institution’s CEO (or append a signed letter indicating approval of
this proposal):

3
4

If the proposed program leads to a professional license, a specialized form for the specific profession may need to accompany this proposal.
If the partner institution is non-degree-granting, see SED’s CEO Memo 94-04.

2 of 22

Section 2. Program Information
2.1. Program Format
Check all SED-defined formats, mode and other program features that apply to the entire program.
a) Format(s): [ ]Day [ x ]Evening

[ ]Weekend

[ ]Evening/Weekend

[ ]Not Full-Time

b) Modes: [ ]Standard [ ]Independent Study [ ]External [ ]Accelerated [ x ]Distance Education
NOTE: If the program is designed to enable students to complete 50% or more of the course requirements through
distance education, check Distance Education, see Section 10, and append a Distance Education Format Proposal
c) Other: [ ] Bilingual [ ] Language Other Than English [ ] Upper Division [ ] Cooperative [ ] 4.5 year [ ] 5 year
2.2. Related Degree Programs
All coursework required for completion of the certificate or advanced certificate program must be applicable to a currently
registered degree program at the institution (with the possible exception of post-doctoral certificates in health-related fields).
Indicate the registered degree program(s) by title, award and five-digit SED Inventory of Registered Programs (IRP) code to
which the credits will apply: Master of Science in Forensic Accounting
2.3. Program Description, Purposes and Planning
a) What is the description of the program as it will appear in the institution’s catalog?
The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting is a 15-credit hour program designed for students who are interested
in expanding the depth of their accounting knowledge-base but do not want to commit to a graduate degree. It is
designed for candidates who already have a Bachelor’s degree in accounting, but applicants who have undergraduate
degrees in other disciplines and have completed the required foundation courses in accounting may also apply.
The purpose of the program is to introduce students to a breadth of investigative functions necessary to uncover
accounting improprieties, including cyber and white collar crimes.

The courses within the certificate program can be used toward partially fulfilling the 150-credit hour requirement for
licensure as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) in New York State for those interested in pursuing such licensure.
However, this program is not registered as licensure qualifying and should not be construed as such.
In addition, courses in the certificate program can be used by CPA’s to fulfill their continuing professional education (CPE)
requirements. SUNY College at Old Westbury is an accredited NYS CPE sponsor (#0002067). CPA’s will receive 45 CPE
credits in accounting for each course completed.

b) What are the program’s educational and, if appropriate, career objectives, and the program’s primary student learning
outcomes (SLOs)? NOTE: SLOs are defined by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education in the
Characteristics of Excellence in Higher Education (2006) as “clearly articulated written statements, expressed in
observable terms, of key learning outcomes: the knowledge, skills and competencies that students are expected to exhibit
upon completion of the program.”
The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting is a 15 credit-hour program that may be completed in one academic
year (Fall, Spring, Summer) and is designed for students that want to expand their portfolio of skills by pursuing
advanced study in forensic accounting, but who may not yet be ready to commit to a full graduate program. It is meant
for those that already have an undergraduate degree in accounting, but may also be undertaken by those with an
3 of 22

undergraduate degree in a different discipline upon completion of specified prerequisite prior to beginning the
certificate program.
The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting will provide access, opportunity, and training to area residents at a
time when there is a growing demand for professionals trained with knowledge and investigative skills necessary to
pursue careers in this field.
Amongst other criteria, students entering the program are expected to have an undergraduate degree from an accredited
college or university. If the undergraduate degree is not in Accounting, then the following prerequisite courses must be
successfully completed in order to be admitted:


Accounting: (21 cr.) – equivalent to BU3502, BU3511, BU4500, BU4510, BU4570, BU4590,
BU5505, BU5525, BU5540 and BU5550.



Statistics: (3 cr.) – equivalent to MA2000.

Students who have completed an undergraduate Business degree will have completed almost all these prerequisites
except for the upper-level accounting courses.
Admission will be based on evidence of a candidate’s ability and motivation for graduate-level work and will require
an undergraduate GPA of 3.0. There is no GMAT requirement for application or admission to the certificate
program. The students’ GPA in graduate-level courses must average 3.0 or higher for successful completion of the
program. Fifteen (15) credits of graduate-level coursework must be completed in the School of Business by every
candidate.
The program’s primary student learning outcomes are:






Students will demonstrate a broad and in-depth knowledge and understanding of accounting principles,
theories, & practice. This knowledge should enable students to develop solutions to complex issues utilizing
critical thinking skills.
Students will be prepared to become socially responsible business leaders able to recognize ethical dilemmas
and achieve resolutions in a socially and professionally responsible manner.
Students should demonstrate the ability to operate and lead in
challenging positions in a competitive global financial reporting environment.
Students will demonstrate the ability to be effective in multiple modes of communication.
Students will demonstrate well developed research skills.

b) How does the program relate to the institution’s and SUNY’s mission and strategic goals and priorities? What is the
program’s importance to the institution, and its relationship to existing and/or projected programs and its expected
impact on them? As applicable, how does the program reflect diversity and/or international perspectives?
The proposed Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting is consistent with SUNY College at Old Westbury’s mission, the
long-term plans of SUNY as stipulated in the Power of SUNY and SUNY High Needs Program for 2014-2015, our FollowUp Report to Middle States, and Old Westbury’s Strategic Plan, 2018 - 2023.
Central to the Power of SUNY strategic plan is SUNY’s commitment to serve as a key engine of revitalization for New York
State’s economy. One of the relevant fields of focus in the SUNY High Needs Program is Business/Finance, specifically,
Accountants & Auditors.
Old Westbury’s Strategic Plan (Strategic Plan, 2018-2023) recognizes the need to grow enrollment and to expand academic
programs. The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting contributes to the College’s Strategic Plan’s intended growth in
quality, enrollment and new initiatives. The advanced certificate upholds the commitment to the development of programs
4 of 22

that move the College forward as “a competitive, comprehensive college offering quality undergraduate and graduate
degrees in the arts and sciences and professional areas”. By increasing the College’s academic appeal, reputation and
retention of self-motivated students, it also supports the Plan’s targeted enrollment growth to 5,000 students.
The College at Old Westbury continues to provide access and opportunity to those having the ability, motivation, and
aspirations to benefit from educational programs that provide a skill set required in a highly competitive globalized economy.
The program contains a globally-related student learning outcome, which is reinforced in several of its courses.
The proposed program is consistent with the College’s specified goals: grow enrollment and increase revenue. Growing
enrollment is crucial for the College to achieve economies of scale and lower its unit fixed costs. The Advanced Certificate
in Accounting will raise the College’s visibility in the region and help continue to build an image of high quality
undergraduate and graduate programs. By broadening our academic offerings as we continue to build our image as a
resource for a high quality educational experience, we also meet our mission to provide access to high quality programs to
members of our surrounding community.
The proposed program will meet a dual purpose by enhancing enrollment in both the undergraduate and graduate programs.
Students in the region have been attracted to the highly reputed B.S. in Accounting program but are not always ready to
commit to pursuing another full program upon completion of their undergraduate degree. Offering advanced coursework
beyond what is required for an undergraduate degree will aid students in gaining entry-level positions, while putting them on
the path to a graduate degree, and towards the 150-credit requirement for earning a CPA if they choose. It is the
responsibility of Old Westbury to give Long Island students a cost-effective quality alternative to the more expensive private
institutions.
The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting aligns perfectly with Old Westbury’s Mission to cultivate “critical
thinking, empathy, creativity” as well as the College’s endeavor “to stimulate a passion for learning and a commitment to
building a more just and sustainable world.” The Vision further calls for the College to become a competitive comprehensive
college offering quality undergraduate and graduate degrees in professional areas, which would include forensic accounting,
to address the needs of a growing residential and commuter student body.
The College at Old Westbury aspires to be a comprehensive college offering a wide variety of high-quality liberal arts,
sciences, and professional programs at the undergraduate level and a select number of targeted programs at the Master’s
level. The Advanced Certificate in Accounting, together with the existing Master degrees offered by the Schools of Business,
Education, and Arts and Sciences, will raise the College’s visibility in the region and help continue to build our reputation as
an institution that offers high-quality programs.
The School of Business, in order to increase its enrollment and enhance its visibility as the SUNY School of Business on
Long Island is working toward AACSB International accreditation, has implemented an assessment-centered approach for all
of its academic programs to realize quality assurance, and continues to broaden its student services in areas such as
advisement, articulation agreements, internships, placement, tutoring, and career counseling.
The strategies employed by the School of Business (SOB) in its drive to achieve its goals are: expand the menu of
business offerings at the graduate level in targeted disciplines, leverage the disciplinary training of business faculty to
ensure quality programs, maintain cost effectiveness in the delivery of all new programs, and build a brand name that
conveys quality and professionalism. The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting is an important step toward
realizing these goals.
d) How were faculty involved in the program’s design?
The Graduate Business Admissions Council (GBAC), consisting of one accounting faculty member, the Chair of the
Accounting Department, the Director of Graduate Business Programs, and the Dean, developed the Advanced Certificate in
Forensic Accounting program in response to requests from professionals to re-skill in this economic environment. The
Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting program will enhance students’ preparation for specialized careers in
accounting without requiring they formally apply to the Master of Science in Forensic Accounting program.

5 of 22

e) How did input, if any, from external partners (e.g., educational institutions and employers) or standards influence the
program’s design? If the program is designed to meet specialized accreditation or other external standards, such as the
educational requirements in Commissioner’s Regulations for the Profession, append a side-by-side chart to show how
the program’s components meet those external standards. If SED’s Office of the Professions requires a specialized form
for the profession to which the proposed program leads, append a completed form at the end of this document.
Not Applicable
f) Enter anticipated enrollments for Years 1 through 5 in the table below. How were they determined, and what assumptions
were used? What contingencies exist if anticipated enrollments are not achieved?

Year
1
2
3
4
5

0
0
0
0
0

Anticipated Headcount Enrollment
Full-time
Part-time
Total
3
3
8
8
12
12
12
12
15
15

Estimated
FTE
1.5
4
6
6
7.5

The impact on future campus enrollment, based on the market need and demand factors will be modest in the first five
years. The New York State Department of Labor estimates that annual job growth in the field of accounting & auditing
will be between 10% and 20% on Long Island and in New York City. Moreover, the workforce demand for such openings
is reinforced by the 2014-2015 SUNY High Needs Program identifying accountants and auditors as a high need area with
annual average openings in New York State projected to reach almost 3,600. Due to its close proximity to New York City,
Old Westbury is fortunate to be in a geographic area containing hundreds of accounting and financial institutions with a
demand for employees trained in accounting.
The College at Old Westbury, with its high quality School of Business, is perfectly situated – by location (Nassau
County), quality faculty, and tuition costs – to provide essential, high quality graduate business education to all
students with the ability, the ambition, and the diligence.
There is no other program of this kind on Long Island. The faculty is also considering introducing a course in
Forensic Accounting at the undergraduate level to generate more knowledge, and thus, greater interest in the advanced
certificate. The proposed Advanced Certificate in forensic accounting would position SUNY Old Westbury to be a
leader in this fast-growing field.
As the sole provider of this type of certificate program on Long Island, along with the need and demand for the skills
that a program of this nature will provide, the conservative enrollments identified above should be achieved. No new
full-time faculty members are being hired to staff the classes in the certificate program and these courses are existing
courses in the Master of Science in Forensic Accounting program. Certificate program students will be filling
available seats in those classes. So, in the unlikely event that enrollments fall short of those above, the courses will
remain in place for the graduate degree programs.
g) Outline all curricular requirements for the proposed program, including prerequisite, core, specialization (track,
concentration), capstone, and any other relevant component requirements, but do not list each General Education course.

Course Title

Credits
3

BU7555 Accounting Information Systems
BU7556 Advanced Auditing and Assurance
3
Services
BU7560 Fraud Examination
3
BU7556 Advanced Auditing and Assurance Services

Two (2) Electives (see appendix 2)
Total required credits: 15 credits

Course Title
3

3

6

BU7560 Fraud Examination

6 of 22

Credits

h) Program Impact on SUNY and New York State
h)(1)
Need: What is the need for the proposed program in terms of the clientele it will serve and the educational
and/or economic needs of the area and New York State? How was need determined? Why are similar programs, if
any, not meeting the need?
According to the New York State Department of Labor, annual job growth in the field of accounting and auditing is
expected to be between 10% and 20% on Long Island and in New York City with a subsequent workforce demand of
1670 annually on Long Island alone. A primary goal of the SUNY mission is to provide access to a quality education
for the communities that we serve as a road to financial security, and a region as large and diverse as Long Island
needs local public graduate programs to serve its residents, Old Westbury’s Advanced Certificate in Forensic
Accounting will provide an, affordable, accessible, regional alternative for the talented, moderate-income residents of
Long Island and metropolitan New York City. Due to its close proximity to New York City, Old Westbury is
fortunate to be in a geographic area containing hundreds of accounting and financial institutions with a demand for
employees especially trained in forensic accounting.
Affordable graduate education in business-related fields such as accounting serves the region’s population
economically, by helping to ease the financial burden the acquisition of such certificates places on talented but less
affluent students in this region. An affordable and accessible Advanced Certificate will benefit Long Island residents
who earn this certificate and there will also be a benefit for New York State’s economy.
There is no other advanced certificate program in forensic accounting on Long Island. The proposed Advanced
Certificate in Forensic Accounting would position SUNY Old Westbury to be a leader in this fast-growing field.

h)(2)

Employment: For programs designed to prepare graduates for immediate employment, use the table below to list
potential employers of graduates that have requested establishment of the program and describe their specific
employment needs. If letters from employers support the program, they may be appended at the end of this form.
As appropriate, address how the program will respond to evolving federal policy on the “gainful employment” of
graduates of certificate programs whose students are eligible for federal student assistance.
Need: Projected positions
Employer
In initial year
In fifth year

Training in this highly specialized area of Forensic Accounting/Auditing will equip students with the skills to pursue
economic opportunities in public and private accounting. According to the New York State Department of Labor,
Employment Prospects to 2020 Report, the employment prospects for Accountants & Auditors (SOC #13-2111) is
very favorable with annual average openings projected to be 3,600.
Based upon the New York State Department of Labor, annual job growth in the field of accounting and auditing is
expected to be between 10% and 20% on Long Island and in New York City. Due to its close proximity to New
York City, Old Westbury is fortunate to be in a geographic area containing hundreds of accounting and
financial institutions with a demand for employees trained in forensic accounting.
h)(3)

Similar Programs: Use the table below to list similar programs at other institutions, public and independent, in
the service area, region and state, as appropriate. Expand the table as needed. NOTE: Detailed program-level
information for SUNY institutions is available in the Academic Program Enterprise System (APES) or Academic
Program Dashboards. Institutional research and information security officers at your campus should be able to
help provide access to these password-protected sites. For non-SUNY programs, program titles and degree
information – but no enrollment data – is available from SED’s Inventory of Registered Programs.
Institution
Program Title
Degree
Enrollment
N/A
7 of 22

h)(4)

Collaboration: Did this program’s design benefit from consultation with other SUNY campuses? If so, what
was that consultation and its result?

The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting did not benefit from consultation with other SUNY campuses.
h)(5)

Concerns or Objections: If concerns and/or objections were raised by other SUNY campuses, how were they
resolved?

No concerns and/or objections were raised by other SUNY campuses.
2.4. Admissions

a) What are all admission requirements for students in this program? Please note those that differ from the
institution’s minimum admissions requirements and explain why they differ.
Initially students will apply to enter the program each fall, but a small number of qualified students (based on completed
prerequisites) may be admitted each spring. All applications must include: transcripts of undergraduate and any graduate
work with evidence of degree(s) conferred. A minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 is required.
The Graduate Business Admissions Committee will make the final decision on admission of all applicants after
appropriate files are complete and reviewed. Every student admitted will meet with an advisor (the Assistant Dean) to
have transcripts evaluated, develop a plan for completion of the certificate, and select courses for the first semester.
Admission will be based on evidence of a candidate’s ability and motivation for graduate-level work. The students’ GPA in
graduate-level courses for the Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting must average 3.0 or higher for successful
completion of the program. A minimum of fifteen (15) credit hours in graduate-level work must be completed in the School
of Business by every candidate.

b) What is the process for evaluating exceptions to those requirements?

c) How will the institution encourage enrollment in this program by persons from groups historically underrepresented
in the institution, discipline or occupation?
We would anticipate the diversity of this new graduate program to be similar to that in our current graduate business
programs. The NYC metropolitan area contains a very diverse population that would be attracted to a certificate program
offered by a reasonably priced public institution versus more expensive private alternatives.

2.5. Academic and Other Support Services
Summarize the academic advising and support services available to help students succeed in the program. Academic
advisement services are provided to all School of Business majors, undergraduate and graduate, by a full-time Assistant
Dean and a full-time Secretary and the Director of Graduate Business Programs. All transcripts are evaluated by the
Assistant Dean to, among other things, ascertain that prerequisite requirements in terms of content and credit hours are met.
Each admitee meets face-to-face with the Assistant Dean before entry into the School of Business and receives a complete
8 of 22

written advisement report which notes all requirements for the certificate. This report is the basis for all future advisement
sessions because it specifies all the requirements for the certificate. The progress of students is monitored by the Director of
Graduate Business Programs, and by the Graduate Business Academic Standings Committee. Issues that arise regarding any
student or program in the School of Business may be handled by one of two department chairs (Accounting and Marketing,
Management & Finance), the Assistant Dean, the Director of Graduate Business Programs or the Dean, or all of the above if
such is required.
Academic Advising: When a student is accepted to the program they are provided with an advisement sheet detailing the
requirements necessary to complete the program. At the end of each semester, after grades are posted, the advisement
sheet is updated to reflect completed requirements. Currently, many students have opted to have advising done by
telephone and email. Based on their intended time to completion and the frequency of class offerings, a recommended
schedule will be noted on their advisement sheet, scanned and emailed to the student.
Academic Support: The College subscribes to Pearson/Smarthinking Online Tutoring service which has 24/7 “drop in”
support in basic subjects, “drop in” tutoring with more restricted hours in many other common subjects including
Statistics, Economics, and various levels of Accounting; and scheduled support for advanced topics like
Government/Nonprofit Accounting and Auditing. Access to this service is through a “Tutoring Center” organization in
our Blackboard LMS.
Course registration, financial aid, bursar: All of these offices utilize online procedures routinely, so students that prefer to
perform these routine tasks online can interact fully with them to utilize their services via computer or phone.
Alternatively, a student may come to campus for these services.
Library: The library has an extensive web presence, so that all its catalogs and reference databases can be accessed online.
Furthermore, most of its research materials are now online as databases, online periodicals, and e-books.
Technology Support: The College’s internal Tech Support utilizes an online ticketing system and maintains an online
FAQ section. The Help Desk, located on the ground floor of the NAB, can be visited for tech support as well.
Career Services: The Career Services office has created an extensive set of resources online via the College website, and it
is currently implementing a dedicated career services management system, Purple Briefcase. In addition, it has contracted
for the online interviewing system Interview Stream.
Support for Students with Disabilities: Our Office of Services for Students with Disabilities (OSSD) can receive disability
documentation by mail, fax or digitally and speak to students via telephone or e-mail to establish them as a student
registered with the OSSD. The most common accommodation needed is for students to have extra time to complete
assignments, which the OSSD routinely works with faculty to arrange via email. If there are accommodations requested
involving assistive technology for an online course, the Director works directly with the student, professor and IT to
provide those on a case by case basis.

2.6. Prior Learning Assessment
If this program will grant credit based on Prior Learning Assessment, describe the methods of evaluating the learning and the
maximum number of credits allowed, or check here [ X ] if not applicable.
2.7. Program Assessment and Improvement
Describe how this program’s achievement of its objectives will be assessed, in accordance with SUNY policy,
including the date of the program’s initial assessment and the length (in years) of the assessment cycle. Explain plans
for assessing achievement of students’ learning outcomes during the program and success after completion of the
program. Append at the end of this form, a plan or curriculum map showing the courses in which the program’s
educational and, if appropriate, career objectives – from Item 2.3(b) of this form – will be taught and assessed.
NOTE: The University Faculty Senate’s Guide for the Evaluation of Undergraduate Programs is a helpful reference.
The program will undergo periodic internal review, guided by the Director of Graduate Business Programs, in
9 of 22

compliance with the College’s Five-Year Program Review process, including the hiring of an external reviewer,
conducted by the Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee.
Furthermore, the Director of Graduate Business Programs will ascertain that the proposed program is in compliance
with applicable standards of the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.
As discussed in section 2.3(b), the program’s primary student learning outcomes are:






Students will demonstrate a broad and in depth knowledge and understanding of taxation principles, theories,
and practice. This knowledge should enable students to develop solutions to complex issues utilizing critical
thinking skills.
Students will be prepared to become socially responsible business leaders able to recognize ethical dilemmas and
achieve resolutions in a socially and professionally responsible manner.
Students should demonstrate the ability to operate and lead in challenging positions in a competitive global
financial environment.
Students will demonstrate the ability to be effective in multiple modes of communication.
Students will demonstrate well developed research skills.

To ensure continuity within the program, there will be an annual meeting of current and scheduled faculty to discuss
courses, requirements, and standards every spring. A curriculum map indicating in which courses the student learning
outcomes will be taught and assessed is attached as Appendix 1. The School of Business is in the process of seeking
AACSB accreditation, therefore it has an established Assurance of Learning Program in which at least some of this
certificate’s learning outcomes will be assessed each year. After students’ graduation from the program, their success
will be assessed through alumni surveys.

Section 3. Program Schedule and Curriculum
Complete the SUNY Program Schedule for Certificate and Advanced Certificate Programs to show how a typical
student may progress through the program.
NOTE: For an undergraduate certificate program, the SUNY Program Schedule for Certificate and Advanced
Certificate Programs must show all curricular requirements and the number of terms required to complete them.
Certificate programs are not required to conform to SUNY’s and SED’s policies on credit limits, general education,
transfer and liberal arts and sciences.
EXAMPLE FOR ONE TERM: Program Schedule for Certificate Program
Term 2: Fall 20xx
Course Number & Title
Cr
ACC 101 Principles of Accounting
4
MAT 111 College Mathematics
3
CMP 101 Introduction to Computers
3
HUM 110 Speech
3
ENG 113 English 102
3
Term credit total: 16

New

Prerequisite(s)
MAT 110

X

NOTE: For a graduate advanced certificate program, the SUNY Sample Program Schedule for Certificate and
Advanced Certificate Programs must include all curriculum requirements. The program is not required to conform with
the graduate program expectations from in Regulation 52.2 http://www.highered.nysed.gov/ocue/lrp/rules.htm.
a) If the program has fewer than 24 credit hours, or if the program will be offered through a nontraditional schedule
(i.e., not on a semester calendar), what is the schedule and how does it impact financial aid eligibility? NOTE:
Consult with your campus financial aid administrator for information about nontraditional schedules and financial
aid eligibility.
10 of 22

The Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting is a 15 credit-hour program that may be completed in one academic
year (Fall, Spring, Summer) and is designed for students that want to develop a specialized skillset by pursuing advanced
study in forensic accounting, but who may not yet be ready to commit to a full graduate program. It is designed for those
that already have an undergraduate degree in accounting, but may also be undertaken by those with an undergraduate
degree in a different discipline upon completion of specified prerequisites prior to beginning the certificate program.
In order for a student to be eligible for financial aid, the guidelines state, in part:
At a school that qualifies as a public or private nonprofit institution of higher education, the following types of
programs are eligible for FSA purposes: (#1 and 2 are intentionally omitted):
3. a program of at least one academic year in duration that leads to a certificate or other nondegree recognized
credential and prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation.
One academic year is typically defined as 24 credits. This certificate has less than 24 credits. Accordingly, this program
would not qualify a student for financial aid.

b) For each existing course that is part of the proposed undergraduate certificate or the graduate advanced certificate,
append, at the end of this form, a catalog description.
See Apendix 2
c) For each new course in the certificate or advanced certificate program, append a syllabus at the end of this
document.
Not Applicable
d) If the program requires external instruction, such as clinical or field experience, agency placement, an internship,
fieldwork, or cooperative education, append a completed External Instruction form at the end of this document.
Not Applicable

11 of 22

SUNY Program Schedule for Certificate and Advanced Certificate Programs
Program/Track Title and Award:______________________________________________________




Indicate academic calendar type: [ X] Semester [ ] Quarter [ ] Trimester [ ] Other (describe):
Label each term in sequence, consistent with the institution’s academic calendar (e.g., Fall 1, Spring 1, Fall 2)
Use the table to show how a typical student may progress through the program; copy/expand the table as needed. Complete all columns that apply to a course.

Term 1: Fall
Course Number & Title
BU 7555 Accounting Information
Systems

Credits
3

BU 7560 Fraud Examination

3

Term credit totals:
Term 3:
Course Number & Title
Elective #2 (see appendix 2 for
options)

6

Term credit totals:

Program Totals (in credits):

Credits
3

New (X)

Co/Prerequisites

Term 2: Spring
Course Number & Title
BU 7556 Advanced Auditing and
Assurance Services
Elective #1 (see appendix 2 for options)

Term credit totals:
New (X)

Co/Prerequisites

Term 4:
Course Number & Title

3

12

New (x)

Co/Prerequisites

3

6
Credits

Term credit totals:

Total
Credits: 15

Credits
3

New (X) Co/Prerequisites

Section 4. Faculty
a) Complete the SUNY Faculty Table on the next page to describe current faculty and to-be-hired (TBH) faculty.
b) Append at the end of this document position descriptions or announcements for each to-be-hired faculty member.
Not Applicable
NOTE: CVs for all faculty should be available upon request. Faculty CVs should include rank and employment status,
educational and employment background, professional affiliations and activities, important awards and recognition,
publications (noting refereed journal articles), and brief descriptions of research and other externally funded projects.
New York State’s requirements for faculty qualifications are in http://www.highered.nysed.gov/ocue/lrp/rules.htm.
c) What is the institution’s definition of “full-time” faculty?
Service, scholarship, and teaching of three (3) courses per semester.

13

SUNY Faculty Table
Provide information on current and prospective faculty members (identifying those at off-campus locations) who will be expected to teach any course in the
graduate program. Expand the table as needed. Use a separate Faculty Table for each institution if the program is a multi-institution program.
(a)

(b)

Faculty Member Name and
Title/Rank
(Include and identify Program
Director with an asterisk)
PART 1. Full-Time Faculty

% of Time
Dedicated
to This
Program

Prof. Jeffrey D’Amico, Assoc. Professor

17%.

Dr. David Glodstein, Assoc. Professor

100%

Dr. Roger Meyer, Associate Professor

Joel Lanz, Adjunct Assistant Professor

(c)
Program
Courses Which
May Be
Taught
(Number and
Title)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Highest and Other
Applicable Earned
Degrees (include
College or
University)

Discipline(s) of
Highest and Other
Applicable Earned
Degrees

Additional Qualifications: List
related certifications, licenses and
professional experience in field

BU7576 Special
Topics: Tax
Fraud; BU 7565
Interviewing,
Fraud & the
Law
BU7560 Fraud
Examination;
BU7561Case
Studies;
BU7564 Special
Topics: Fraud
Exam; BU7566
Criminology
White-collar
Crime; BU7568
Document
Examination

LLM (Villanova
University)

Taxation BS in
Accounting;

Member of Nassau and Suffolk County
Bar Associations; Managing member of
a law practice involving various income
and other tax issues.

DBA (Northcentral
University)

Business/ Forensic
Accounting

CPA, CFE, CFI Forensic accounting,
internal control & risk assessment, and
litigation consultant. Services provided
to Fortune 500 Insurance Companies,
attorneys and accountants

17%

BU 7556
Advanced
Auditing

DBA (Nova
Southeastern
University)

Accounting and
Marketing

CPA, CIA, CRMA

75%

BU7560 Fraud
Examination;
BU7555
Accounting
Info Systems;
BU7556
Advanced
Auditing;
BU7567
Computer
Forensics;

MBA (Pace University)

Information Systems

CPA, CGMA, CITP, CFF, CFE, CISA,
CISM, CISSP Niche CPA practice
focusing on technology governance,
risk management, IT audit, cyber and
information security and computer
facilitated fraud. Chairs the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(AICPA) Certified Information
Management and Technology
Assurance Executive Committee
(IMTAEC).

14

(a)

(b)

Faculty Member Name and
Title/Rank
(Include and identify Program
Director with an asterisk)

% of Time
Dedicated
to This
Program

(c)
Program
Courses Which
May Be
Taught
(Number and
Title)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Highest and Other
Applicable Earned
Degrees (include
College or
University)

Discipline(s) of
Highest and Other
Applicable Earned
Degrees

Additional Qualifications: List
related certifications, licenses and
professional experience in field

Part 2. Part-Time Faculty
N/A

Part 3. Faculty To-Be-Hired (List as
TBH1, TBH2, etc., and provide
title/rank and expected hiring date)
N/A

15

Section 5. Financial Resources and Instructional Facilities
a) What is the resource plan for ensuring the success of the proposed program over time? Summarize the
instructional facilities and equipment committed to ensure the success of the program. Please explain new
and/or reallocated resources over the first five years for operations, including faculty and other personnel, the
library, equipment, laboratories, and supplies. Also include resources for capital projects and other expenses.
Since all the courses in the Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting are already offered in the Master of
Science in Forensic Accounting programs there are no additional resources required.
b) Complete the five-year SUNY Program Expenses Table, below, consistent with the resource plan summary.
Enter the anticipated academic years in the top row of this table. List all resources that will be engaged
specifically as a result of the proposed program (e.g., a new faculty position or additional library resources).
If they represent a continuing cost, new resources for a given year should be included in the subsequent
year(s), with adjustments for inflation or negotiated compensation. Include explanatory notes as needed.

SUNY Program Expenses Table
(OPTION: You can paste an Excel version of this schedule AFTER this sentence, and delete the table below.)
Expenses (in dollars)
Program Expense Categories

Before
Start

Academic
Year 1:

Academic
Year 2:

Academic
Year 3:

(a) Personnel (including
faculty and all others)
(b) Library
(c) Equipment
(d) Laboratories
(e) Supplies
(f) Capital Expenses
(g) Other (Specify):
(h) Sum of Rows Above

Section 6. Library Resources
NOTE: This section does not apply to certificate or advanced certificate programs.
Section 7. External Evaluation
NOTE: This section does not apply to certificate or advanced certificate programs.
Section 8. Institutional Response to External Evaluator Reports
NOTE: This section does not apply to certificate or advanced certificate programs.

16

Academic
Year 4:

Academic
Year 5:

Section 9. SUNY Undergraduate Transfer
NOTE: This section does not apply to certificate or advanced certificate programs.

17

Section 10. Application for Distance Education
a) Does the program’s design enable students to complete 50% or more of the course requirements through
distance education? [X] No [ ] Yes. If yes, append a completed SUNY Distance Education Format
Proposal at the end of this proposal to apply for the program to be registered for the distance education
format.
b) Does the program’s design enable students to complete 100% of the course requirements through distance
education? [ X] No [ ] Yes

Section MPA-1. Need for Master Plan Amendment and/or Degree Authorization
NOTE: This section does not apply to certificate or advanced certificate programs.
List of Appended Items
Appended Items: Materials required in selected items in Sections 1 through 5 and Section 10 of this form should
be appended after this page, with continued pagination. In the first column of the chart below, please number the
appended items, and append them in number order.
Number
Appended Items
Reference Items
For multi-institution programs, a letter of approval from partner
N/A
Section 1, Item (e)
institution(s)
For programs leading to professional licensure, a side-by-side chart
showing how the program’s components meet the requirements of
N/A
Section 2.3, Item (e)
specialized accreditation, Commissioner’s Regulations for the
Profession, or other external standards
For programs leading to licensure in selected professions for which the
N/A
SED Office of the Professions (OP) requires a specialized form, if
Section 2.3, Item (e)
required by OP
OPTIONAL: For programs leading directly to employment, letters of
N/A
Section 2, Item 2.3 (h)(2)
support from employers, if available
1

2
N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

For all programs, a plan or curriculum map showing the courses in which
the program’s educational and (if appropriate) career objectives will be
taught and assessed
For all programs, a catalog description for each existing course that is
part of the proposed program
For all programs, syllabi for all new courses in the proposed program
For programs requiring external instruction, External Instruction Form
and documentation required on that form
For programs that will depend on new faculty, position descriptions or
announcements for faculty to-be-hired
For programs designed to enable students to complete at least 50% of
the course requirements at a distance, a Distance Education Format
Proposal

18

Section 2, Item 7

Section 3, Item (b)
Section 3, Item (c)
Section 3, Item (d)
Section 4, Item (b)
Section 10

Appendix 1 - Curriculum Map for the Advanced Certificate in Forensic Accounting Degree
Legend
P:
Practiced/Reinforced
A: Assessed
Course Name and
Number

School of Business Values and Learning Goals

Excellence
Socially
Multiculturalism
Excellence
Excellence
Professionalism Responsible Professionalism Professionalism Professionalism
Citizenship

BU7555 Accounting
Information Systems
BU7556 Advanced
Auditing & Assurance
Services
BU7560 Fraud
Examination
BU7562 Business
Valuation for Forensic
Accountants
BU7563 Fraudulent
Financial Reporting
BU7567 Computer
Forensics
BU7565 Forensic
Interviewing, Fraud and
the Law
BU7566
Criminology/White-Collar
Crime
BU7561 Case Studies in
Fraud Examination
BU7564 Special Topics
in Fraud Examination
BU7568 Forensic
Document Examination
BU7576 Special Topics:
Tax Fraud

Goal 1

Goal 2

Goal 3

Goal 4

Students will
demonstrate a broad
and more in depth
understanding of laws,
regulations and
practice applicable to
forensic accounting.
This knowledge should
enable students to
develop solutions to
complex fraud and
forensic accounting
issues utilizing critical
thinking skills.

Students will be
prepared to
become socially
responsible
business leaders
able to recognize
ethical dilemmas
and achieve
resolutions in a
socially and
professionally
responsible
manner

Students should
demonstrate the ability
to operate and lead in
challenging positions
in a competitive global
financial environment

Students will be able to
demonstrate an ability
to be effective
communicators.

P

P.A

P

P

P

P

P

P,A

P

P

19

Goal 5
Students will
demonstrate well
developed research
skills

Appendix 2 – Catalog Course Descriptions
Forensic Accounting Advanced Certificate Required Courses
BU 7555 Accounting Information Systems
3 cr.
The course provides an overview of the interaction of accounting professionals with
computer-based information systems (CBIS) and the use of information technology (IT).
Developments such as the Internet, e-commerce, databases, and artificial intelligence have
transformed the way business organizations conduct their activities. The course stresses the
necessity for accountants to participate in the design of information systems, to be able to
measure and evaluate the performance of information systems, and to assess the quality of
information processing.
Prerequisites: BU6520 (Financial Accounting Theory) or equivalent.
BU 7556 Advanced Auditing & Assurance Services
3 cr.
Building on the foundation created in an introductory course, this course enhances the
understanding of fundamental concepts of auditing and provides in-depth exposure to the
auditor’s legal liability and professional responsibilities and to specific topics within the
auditing process (e.g., analytical review procedures, internal control issues, fraud detection,
statistical and non-statistical sampling methods, and the use of computers in auditing). It also
provides exposure to the emerging value-added assurance services decision makers are
increasingly demanding in the information age. Topics are covered using text material, real world case studies,
current articles, a research project, and interactive assurance service
projects utilizing Internet links.
Prerequisites: BU6550 (Auditing for Public Accounting) or equivalent
BU 7560 Fraud Examination
3 cr.
Topics include various aspects of fraud prevention and detection, including elements of
fraud, costs of fraud, use of controls to prevent fraud, and methods of fraud detection. In
addition, the course will cover the major methods employees use to commit occupational
fraud. Practical exercises involving investigative research, interviewing techniques and
indirect methods of proof used in resolving financial crimes will be included to facilitate the
understanding of the topics discussed. Guest speakers with expertise in fraud
examination/forensic accounting will share their knowledge and experiences with the class.
Prerequisites: None

Forensic Accounting Advanced Certificate Electives (select 2)
BU 7561 Case Studies in Fraud Examination
3 cr.
This is an integrative course which makes use of comprehensive cases and round robin
discussions of current issues. Guest speakers may present, or students may report on various
projects that they have been conducting either independently or in groups. Topics include:
forms of white-collar crime, assets misappropriation, corruption and other fraud schemes.
Prerequisites: BU7560 or equivalent

20

BU 7562 Business Valuation for Forensic Accountants
3 cr.
This course explores the basics of business valuation; how businesses are valued, how to
evaluate the credentials of self-styled valuation “experts”, and the quality of the report they
produce. Organization of case information into effective written reports. Students will learn
the three methods of valuation, their strengths and weaknesses, and when to apply each. The
course explores how professionals use valuation principles. Most importantly, students will
engage in interactive exercises to learn how to procure valuation reports which are more
likely to survive audit by the IRS. Guest speakers may present, or students may report on
various projects that they have been conducting either independently or in groups.
Prerequisites: BU7560 or equivalent
BU 7563 Fraudulent Financial Reporting
3 cr.
Financial statement fraud involves intentional misstatements or omissions of financial
statement amounts or disclosures to deceive users of the statements. Students will learn how
and why financial statement fraud is committed, how such conduct can be deterred, and how
allegations of fraud should be investigated and resolved. Students will understand and detect
the creative accounting methods employed by management along with related fraud
prevention strategies. In addition to covering the material in the textbook, class sessions will
be interactive, with students working through cases, developing investigative strategies, and
seeking to prove how the fraud was committed. Guest speakers who are experts in this area
will discuss actual events. Projects will be conducted independently and in groups.
Prerequisites: BU7560 or equivalent
BU 7564 Special Topics in Fraud Examination
3 cr.
This course will include, but not be limited to, specific fraud contexts, such as bankruptcy
fraud, money laundering, tax fraud, consumer fraud, or industry specific frauds, such as
healthcare fraud, securities fraud, insurance fraud, mortgage fraud. The theme of this course
and topic(s) covered could vary each semester offered. Guest speakers who are experts in this
area will discuss actual events. Projects will be conducted independently and in groups.
Prerequisites: BU7560 or equivalent
BU 7565 Forensic Interviewing, Fraud and the Law
3 cr.
Instruction and skill development in interviewing, and note-taking in the criminal justice
context. Development of skills to conduct investigations by interviewing witnesses, victims,
and suspects properly. This course is designed to further the student’s knowledge of the
contemporary legal environment faced by forensic accountants. Topics covered include the
Federal Rules of Evidence (including the Daubert rule), the Federal Rules of Civil and
Criminal Procedure, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Federal False Claims Act, the
grand jury, expert witness testimony, laws that preserve the rights of suspects and witnesses,
including those pertaining to searches and seizures, arrest, the privilege against self-incrimination, and laws
related to money laundering and terrorist financing (e.g., USA Patriot
Act), wire fraud, mail fraud, and other fraud-related offenses. The course also provides an
overview of offshore entities such as trusts and shell corporations. Other important topics the
course examines are asset tracing and asset forfeiture alternative dispute resolution.
Prerequisites: None

21

BU 7566 Criminology/White-Collar Crime
3 cr.
Psychological and sociological motivations of fraud perpetrators will be examined in depth.
Crimes committed by “respectable people” in positions of responsibility in private or public
sector will be studied, looking at similarities and differences in behaviors. Critical readings
of Sutherland, Cressey, and others are contrasted with more recent perspectives on illegal
developments and corporate violations. Wall Street executives, corporate and government
officials and high tech computer wizards give a new focus to white collar crime. Discusses
the nature of these crimes, how regulatory bodies and legal systems treat these criminals and
how they seek to avoid detection and prosecution. The impact of this type of crime on
individuals, organizations and society will be discussed.
Prerequisites: None
BU 7567 Computer Forensics
3 cr.
The purpose of this course is to explain and promote the use of computer forensic technology
and methodologies used in both proactive and reactive forensic accounting engagements.
Forensic technology and detailed computer examinations have become more commonplace
in today’s forensic investigative environment, and the use of computer forensic analysis, discovery, and forensic
data analysis is often a necessary component of any forensic
accounting engagement. While most accounting professionals are not trained technologists,
due to the ever changing investigative landscape, it is becoming increasingly important that
accountants have an adequate base-level understanding of the current state of computer
forensic and data analytical technology tools.
Prerequisites: BU7560 and BU7555, or equivalents
BU 7568 Forensic Document Examination
3 cr.
Fundamental procedures for handling, collecting, and analyzing questioned or fraudulent
documents are presented. Topics include ethical conduct, terminology, investigative
principles, case law and legal precedents, expert witness testimony, current research, notable
cases, and ASTM standards. Guest speakers who are experts in this area will discuss actual
events. Projects will be conducted independently and in groups.
Prerequisites: BU7560 and BU7565, or equivalents
BU 7576 Special Topics: Tax Fraud
3 cr.
An introductory course examining relevant IRC sections, Treasury Regulations and tax cases
that pertain to Accounting Fraud and Tax Evasion. Students will be required to keep abreast
of recent court decisions, regulations, and legislation, as well as proposed legislation and
temporary regulations. Research, written assignments, and group homework projects will be
assigned each semester from the prevailing accounting and tax fraud cases for review,
discussion and analysis.
Prerequisites: BU7560 and Tax Accounting for Individuals, or equivalents

22