To:  Faculty Senate 

Attn: Andrew Mattson/Jennie D’Ambroise



From:  Kathleen O’Connor-Bater, 

Chair ARPT 2016-2017



Re/Summary Report of Academic Affairs’ Decisions



ARPT REPORT



During the AY 2016-2017, ARPT had 42 files of candidates scheduled for review. Of these 42, one submitted the resignation prior to the ARPT review and two resigned subsequently to the ARPT vote and are therefore not included in the Memorandum on ARPT/Administrative Decisions issued by Academic Affairs.  Of the thirty-nine remaining candidates, the thirty-seven were unanimously supported by their sponsoring departments with ARPT votes unanimously supporting the Department recommendation, though the term of the reappointment vote was divided between the 2-year or the 3-year reappointment in 5 cases, for which Academic Affairs decided on a 2-Year reappointment in all but one case, in which the decision for the 3-year reappointment was issued.  In one case, the Department vote was unanimously in favor of reappointment, but with the recommended term divided with 11 favoring the 2-year reappointment and 3 voting for one year. The decision from Academic Affairs was for 2 years.



The breakdown of the reappointment categories and terms, as well as the tenure and promotion decisions are discussed below.



First and Second reappointment:  There were eleven candidates whose files ARPT reviewed for the first reappointment; and eight for the second reappointment.  



One Year to Tenure Review Reappointment: Eight candidates were reviewed for the One-Year-to-Tenure Review Reappointment with all eight recommended unanimously by their Departments and voted unanimously in favor of the reappointment by ARPT.



Tenure and Promotion: ARPT reviewed nine files for Tenure of which eight files for Tenure and Promotion to Associate and one, who had been hired at the Associate Professor rank, for tenure only.  One faculty member was recommended for Promotion to Associate Professor with a 2-year Reappointment leading to the Tenure Review instead of the One-Year-to-Tenure Review Reappointment. 





Respectfully submitted,



Kathleen O’Connor-Bater