Course, Semester/Year, Instructor Name

Course Name and Number

Course Location, Time, Days



Instructor:	

Email:		 

Office:		

Office Hours:	

Office Phone:	

	



Course description											

Describe what the course will entail. 


Prerequisites												

List any prerequisites.



Course objectives and student outcomes								

			Use active student learning outcomes language (e.g. demonstrate knowledge of, develop, identify, describe, critically engage, analyze).



Textbook(s)												

Describe the book(s) or reading material; consider putting a picture of the book(s).  If more readings will be provided via printouts or on Blackboard, state that. Specify which books are required and which are optional.



Course Website											

Discuss Blackboard, give link (https://bboldwestbury.sln.suny.edu/).  Consider including language about IT: If you need help with technology, you can visit the IT service desk on the ground floor of the New Academic Building, or call them: (516) 876-3098.  



Grading (describe what score is an A, A-, B+, etc.)						

Describe your grading scheme. Describe your conditions for incomplete grades, and the process by which you provide expectations for the incomplete (email agreement, contract, etc.), and the deadline for the work to be completed. 

		

		Language from the Course Catalogs regarding incomplete grades:

		A grade of Incomplete (I) may be assigned by the instructor when: 

		extenuating circumstances, such as accident or illness, make it impossible for the student to complete the course work by the end of the semester;

		the student has completed most of the course work at a passing level;

		the instructor expects that the student will be able to complete the remainder of the course requirements by the end of the following semester. 

		A grade of I remains in effect for one semester. A student must make appropriate arrangements with his/her instructor to complete the course requirements. The instructor will inform the student concerning the specific scope and nature of the work that must be completed. To certify fulfillment of course requirements, the instructor is expected to submit a letter grade by the end of the following semester. If the instructor does not submit a grade, the Registrar will automatically assign a grade of F. Students who are completing an incomplete should not re-register for that course in the semester that they are completing the incomplete. 

		



Course requirements  										

		Assignment	 points

		Assignment	 points

		Assignment	 points

		Assignment	 points	

		Assignment	 points

		Total points	 points

		

Exams and dates											

List exams and dates. Consult https://www.oldwestbury.edu/academics/registrar/class-schedule for mid-term and final exam schedules. College policy requires faculty to follow the exam schedule as distributed. 



Class participation 											

		If participation is included in grading, describe what constitutes good participation.  Describe whether this includes attendance, active learning, discussing and asking questions, or any other activities.  If you have an attendance policy connected to the final grade (e.g., missing a certain number of courses means a drop in the final grade), state it clearly.  Sample language for respectful classrooms: “Most students find the material challenging and my job is to make the class time so useful that there is no time to email, text, IM, tweet, surf or whatever. You may bring laptops to class and I just assume that you will turn off all other modes of communication and use it only for taking notes. Watching a movie during class or surfing the web can be distracting to those around you. We call this a negative externality. If someone’s behavior is disturbing you, please let me know. It is important that we respect everyone’s learning environment.”

		

Other assignments											 

Describe what you want from the assignment, presentation, or exam -- when it is due, how it is due (printed, emailed, submitted through Blackboard), how you want it formatted (e.g. Typed? Stapled? References? Margins? Font?).  State whether it is independent or group work.  

		

Extra credit												

Do you offer it?  Describe how/what you offer.  If not, think about stating that.



Accommodations for Students with Disabilities							

If you have or suspect you may have a physical, psychological, medical or learning disability that may impact your course work, please contact 

Stacey DeFelice, Director

The Office of Services for Students with Disabilities (OSSD),

NAB 2065

Phone: 516-628-5666, Fax (516) 876-3005, TTD: (516) 876-3083. 

E-mail: defelices@oldwestbury.edu



The office will help you determine if you qualify for accommodations and assist you with the process of accessing them. All support services are free and all contacts with the OSSD are strictly confidential. SUNY/Old Westbury is committed to assuring that all students have equal access to all learning and social activities on campus. More information about the OSSD can be found at their webpage:

https://www.oldwestbury.edu/academics/support/OSSD





Course Policies

Contact Policy

Describe any policies regarding contact between you and the students. Email format, response time, etc. State whether you require students to use school email.

Changes

The instructor reserves the right to make changes to the schedule and content. Insert language about how students will be notified about changes. 

Formatting

Describe the format expected for any assignments. 

Late Work

Describe late work policy.

Exam and Assignment Makeup Policy

Describe any other makeup policies.



Course Withdrawal

Consider alerting students as to whether you will approve withdrawals after the 7th week.



Here is the Registrar’s webpage and language regarding withdrawals. 

https://www.oldwestbury.edu/academics/registrar/withdrawals

Language from the Registar: After the end of the add/drop period and up to the seventh week of classes, a student may withdraw from one or more courses without instructor approval, by completing a withdrawal form.  To access the withdrawal form:

			1.	Login to the connect.oldwestbury.edu portal.

			2.	Click on the "Registration" icon.

			3.	Use the withdrawal form located in the "Forms" section (likely located in the lower right hand corner of the webpage).

		

After the seventh week of classes, the online withdrawal process will require instructor approval.

The deadline to withdraw from classes is published in the Fall or Spring semester Dates, Deadlines and General Information.  Nonattendance in classes does not constitute withdrawal.



Tutoring Center											

Location: Campus Center, H200.  

Website: https://www.oldwestbury.edu/academics/tutor



The Tutoring Center provides free peer tutoring to Old Westbury students for SUNY Old Westbury courses.  Students can receive assistance through one-on-one tutoring, mentoring, group study sessions, handouts or workshops.

Walk-ins are welcome.  Please check https://www.oldwestbury.edu/academics/tutor/course-schedule for details on hours and availability.













Writing Center											

Location: Main floor of the Library in Campus Center (room L-242)

Phone: 516-876-3093 

Website: https://www.oldwestbury.edu/academics/support/writing
The Writing Center provides free writing assistance and free non-credit writing workshops for Old Westbury students, faculty, staff, and alumni.



You can make an appointment at https://oldwestbury.mywconline.com/ or stop by the Writing Center located in room L-242 on the main floor of the Library in Campus Center.

State Hours for the Semester.



Math Learning Center										

Location: Main floor of the Library in Campus Center (room L-242)

Phone: (516) 628-5622

Website: https://www.oldwestbury.edu/departments/mathematics/mlc



Staffed by professional and peer tutors, the Math Learning Center (MLC) provides free tutoring and support services for students enrolled in mathematics courses at SUNY Old Westbury. The MLC also houses a library of textbooks for use in the Math Learning Center.

During the Fall and Spring Semester, the Math Learning Center hours are M-Th 9:30 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. After the first week of the semester, additional hours are added.  Current hours are posted outside the Math Learning Center.  The Center is closed during the Summer and Winter Sessions.



Online Tutoring Available for Students								

The College offers free online tutoring to students from Pearson/Smarthinking. The tutoring is on topics in Mathematics, the Sciences, Business, and using MS Office, and, over the Summer the Online Writing Center is open as well. 

Students can use up to 6 hours without restriction, and if they use that up, they can request more. Students access the service via a link in their homepages in Blackboard.






SUNY COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY POLICY ON ACADEMIC INTEGRITY 

The College’s Academic Integrity Policy is available at 

https://www.oldwestbury.edu/policies/academic-integrity



Administered by the Office of Academic Affairs: Students are expected to maintain the highest standards of honesty in their college work. Any act which attempts to misrepresent to an instructor or College official the academic work of the student or another student, or an act that is intended to alter any record of a student’s academic performance by unauthorized means, constitutes academic dishonesty. Cheating, forgery and plagiarism are considered serious offenses and are subject to disciplinary action. Sanctions for a breach of academic integrity may include academic sanctions decided by the instructor, including failing the course for any violation, to disciplinary sanctions ranging from probation to expulsion. When in doubt about plagiarism, paraphrasing, quoting, collaboration, or any other form of cheating, consult the course instructor. Ignorance of the Academic Integrity Policy is never an acceptable excuse.



Cheating: Cheating is defined as giving or obtaining information by improper means in meeting any academic requirements.  Examples of cheating, although not inclusive, include: unauthorized giving or receiving of information for an examination, paper, laboratory procedure, or computer assignment (file or printout); taking an examination for another student or allowing another student to take an examination for you; altering or attempting to alter a grade either on graded work or in an instructor’s records or on any College form or record. 



Forgery: Forgery is defined as the alteration of college forms, documents, records, or the signing of such forms or documents by someone other than the proper authority. 



Plagiarism: Plagiarism is defined as the use of material from another author whether intentional or unintentional, without referencing or identifying the source of the material. If students have any questions as to what constitutes plagiarism, it is their responsibility to get clarification by consulting with the appropriate instructor.






Semester Year Course Calendar 

Include some sort of course calendar

Topic

Date/Week

Assignments

Due Date





























































































































































































The course calendar is subject to change. Instructor will notify students via (describe how you notify students: email, Blackboard, during class, etc.) if any changes are made. Students are responsible for those changes.