Call to Action: The Justice for Fraud Victims Project

SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Senate

Dr. David Glodstein CPA, CFE

School of Business, Dept. of Accounting, Taxation & Business Law

September 10, 2021

JFVP - Background

JFVP started at Gonzaga University, Spokane Washington

Implemented a “Real-World” Fraud Investigation

Only program 

where students 

work in teams to assist financial fraud victims in cases where a full forensic accounting investigation would otherwise be too costly and time consuming.

JFVP and Other Universities

University of Alaska (Anchorage, AK)

George Fox University (Newberg, OR)

Marquette University (Milwaukee, WI)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LPJbNniLdeg

	

Mission: SUNY Old Westbury

Old Westbury weaves the values of integrity, community engagement, and global citizenship into the fabric of its academic programs and campus life. 

In an environment that cultivates critical thinking, empathy, creativity and intercultural understanding, we endeavor to stimulate a passion for learning and a commitment to building a more just and sustainable world. 

JFVP at Old Westbury

JFVP offers 

victims

 of 

fraud

 across Long Island support in their pursuit of restitution while also providing vital skill-building experience for students.

JFVP will be OW’s flagship program for social justice in the communities we serve.

Formation of Partnerships

SUNY Old Westbury

Certified Fraud Examiners

Law Enforcement (Local, State and Federal)

Legal Community (Attorney’s, District Attorney’s Offices, Attorney General)

Other Members of the Community

JFVP - Case Examples

Employee embezzlement at small businesses and non-profit entities 

Bookkeepers using company funds to pay for their personal expenses.

Misuse of company credit cards, forging checks, changing payee on check after check has been signed.

Payroll fraud – Including duplicate checks, inflated hours or wage rates.

Caregiver theft in home from elderly patient.

Case Criteria

Case selection include, but are not limited to:

Demonstration of financial need (inability to afford a full fraud examination)

Victim cooperation with the investigation

Whether or not the crime occurred within the statute of limitations for prosecution

Benefits for Victims

Help victims obtain justice where fraud occurred, and they suffered financial harm.

Provide a resource and assistance for small businesses and non-profit entities where there are scarce law enforcement resources to pursue perpetrators.

Educational Benefits for Students

Unstructured Problem based learning

Experiential learning

learning through experience or doing

Applied learning 

Application of accounting, auditing, investigating, and communication skills

Will improve student interpersonal, writing, and communication skills

Old Westbury Community

Call to Action

I

 NEED YOUR HELP TO BE A CHAMPION FOR THE PROJECT

The students will need cases/clients to work on.  

I am hoping you can help offer some insight/guidance. 

 

I need other ideas. 

Maybe it’s a legal group? 

Maybe a set of non-profits who deal with such issues?  

Social Media

Facebook

	facebook.com/

FraudVictimsProjectatSUNYOW

LinkedIn

SUNY Old Westbury Justice for Fraud 

Victims Project

Twitter

	#fraudvictimsOW

Instagram

	

fraudvictimsprojectatsunyow

Additional Information about JFVP

Justice for Fraud Victims Project | SUNY Old Westbury

Justice for Fraud Victims Project Launched by School of Business | SUNY Old Westbury

Link on College website to Report Fraudulent Activity

Questions – Justice for Fraud Victims Project

Dr. David Glodstein CPA, CFE

glodsteind@oldwestbury.edu

516-876-3305 (College Office)

516-681-2772 

(Personal)