MEMORANDUM
Date:

November 9, 2004

From:
Re:

Caroline Sawyer, Faculty Senate Chair
Mission Review II draft

To:

Dr. Lawrence Cox, Academic Vice President

At its meeting of 10-29-04, the Old Westbury Faculty Senate passed a resolution

charging the Executive Committee with compiling faculty comments on the

Mission Review II document and sending them to the Academic Vice President.
With the compilation, the Executive Committee submits this cover letter
explaining its understanding of the overall process by which faculty governance
has been involved in the drafting of the Mission Review II document. It is hoped

that these remarks will be reflected in the procedural statement to be appended to

the final MR II document, per the University Senate Resolution passed October
23, 2004, “On the Role of Campus Governance in Mission Review II.”

Following are the references to Mission Review II in minutes of Spring 2004
Senate meetings:
2-27-04 Report of the AVP (Dr. Lawrence Cox), following mention of two other
initiatives involving faculty (Middle States, upcoming, and NCATE),
notes: “[There is a] 3 report due—Mission Review II. How we
articulate with 2-year colleges, and [sic] this will have an impact on how
we do General Education on campus.”
3-26-04

A question was raised following the AVP’s report “on the nature of the
MR II summary statement.” In response, the AVP indicated that “the
external deadline is 7-01-04—short turnaround frame for a document
stating overall goals. Departments should be planning their goals.”

4-16-04

In his report, the AVP states that he has met with “committee on Middle
States.”

Presumably it is Mission Review II that was meant, since the

Middle States process had not yet begun.

The issue of the Mission Review II process was raised at the first Senate meeting
of Fall 2004, on September 10. The AVP indicated his expectation that the

Senate Chair Senate would serve on the MR II steering committee by virtue of her

position. She stated that she would decline to do so until the AVP made clear the

process by which faculty governance would be involved.

In response, the AVP’s office sent a list of faculty who had provided input into
the document, but without indication of committee organization, leadership, or
timeline. The Chair was invited to and attended a meeting of the Academic

Subcommittee on October 29. She was also invited to a meeting of the Steering

Committee on November 1 but was unable to attend owing to schedule conflicts.
The deadline for the MR II draft has been extended several times, and several
drafts have been produced. A final draft, dated October 7, was circulated to all

faculty by e-mail on October 12, with a request that comments be sent to the

AVP’s secretary. By the time that draft was circulated, the agenda for the Faculty

Senate meeting on October 15, had already been set, so there was no opportunity
for substantive discussion by the Senate. At the meeting, the AVP did reiterate
the request for faculty input, stating that the deadline for faculty input was Nov. 1.
On October 18, the Executive Committee met with the AVP and engaged in a
substantive discussion of the Mission Review II document.

The next day, on the

basis of that meeting, the Executive Committee decided to clear the agenda as
much as possible for discussion of the MR II document at the next Senate
meeting, October 29. Later that day, the AVP’s secretary sent a message to the

faculty indicating that the deadline had been pushed up to October 22. Later, in
response to the Executive Committee’s urging, with the reinforcement of the
October 23 University Senate resolution, the AVP pushed the deadline back to
November | and then to November 5.

It is the Executive Committee’s understanding that the drafting of the Mission
Review II document is the responsibility of the campus president. Until
November 3, 2004, the Executive Committee was not aware of the president’s

direct involvement in the process. During their first meeting with him of Fall
2004, in September, the Executive Committee inquired about Mission Review II.
Dr. Butts expressed his confidence that faculty were being involved. When the
Executive Committee met with the president a second time, on Nov. 3, the
President expressed his concern about the document and his interest in the
process, indicating that he had initially assigned responsibility for drafting the

drafting of the document to the AVP.

Faculty have had input into the Mission Review II document, with some having
produced substantial sections, apparently. It also should be acknowledged that,
since September, the AVP has repeatedly expressed openness to faculty concerns.
But shifting deadlines have made it difficult to plan for systematic review of the

document. On November 3, the President stated his interest in extending the
deadline still further and asked the Executive Committee to present him with

names of faculty members who could carry on the coordination of the effort. The
Executive Committee plans to do so once the Faculty Senate has endorsed the

proposal at its next meeting, November 12.

Whether or not the drafting moves ahead, the Executive Committee remains
concemed about the apparent lack of data and documentation that would be
necessary to evaluate the plans articulated in the MR II document. Old Westbury

has no Strategic Plan accepted by SUNY that would serve as a foundation for

constructing a vision for the next five years. There is supposed to be a working
Strategic Plan, but it has not yet been presented to the Executive Committee.

Moreover, the Executive Committee is not aware of any up-to-date budget
figures. As far we know, none have been presented to the Senate in recent years.
Further, as drafted, the Mission Review II document gives no evidence of

articulation with the Campus Capital Plan

In summary, owing to the absence of formal records of substantive participation
of faculty governance in Mission Review process, at this point the Executive
Committee cannot verify that the document has been drawn up in accordance with
the guidelines set forth in the University Faculty Senate resolution of October 23,
2004.

Cc: Dr. Calvin O. Butts III, President
Maureen Dolan,
University Senator
Faculty Senate Vice President
Runi Mukherji
Faculty Senate Secretary-Treasurer
Jill Edelson,

Anthony Barbera

Faculty Senate Parliamentarian

At-Large Representative to the Faculty Senate