Resolution for Proposal for
A Minor in Public Health
WHEREAS, the Department of Public Health proposed a Minor in Public Health, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Minor would help students develop the knowledge of social, political,
and economic forces that shape population health, the structure of the U.S. healthcare system,
and the empirical skills of epidemiology, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Minor would help students advance their careers in a health-related
professions and take on roles in policy and administration with a critical lens, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Minor consists of three core courses from Public Health and two
elective courses in Public Health, Politics, Economics & Law, Psychology and Sociology, and
WHEREAS, all Academic Departments that would contribute a course/courses expressed their
support for the proposed Minor, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Minor is built on existing courses and thus requires no additional
resources,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the proposed Minor in
Public Health.

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), November 13, 2020
The Proposal approved by CAP on November 13, 2020
[CAP Membership]
Tejas Bouklas, Svetlana Jovic, Yu Lei, Matthew Lippert, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Sheyi Oladipo,
Dana Sinclair, Kerry Weir, and Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)

Minor in Public Health
Proposal for Minor in Public Health
A. Purpose: What knowledge and/or skills is the minor designed to confer? How will these
benefit students?
This minor will introduce students to core concepts in public health, using the social
determinants of health framework. Students will learn how the social, political and economic
environment shapes population health and about the structure of the domestic health system, and
how to apply the empirical skills of epidemiology. They will also explore a self-tailored set of
electives, possibly including (among others; see complete list below) environmental justice,
women’s health, health policy, racism and health, immigrant and refugee health.
B. Demand: Which students are likely to take this minor? What might it allow them to do
upon graduation?
This minor will have broad interest, in particular for students interested in pursuing the
health professions and those interested in understanding and mitigating the impact of social
inequities on populations. Students minoring in public health with the intention of pursuing allied
health professions will gain from this program, as they will be come to those professions with a
deep understanding of the larger social structures by which health is shaped. While clinical
training will enable them to understand and respond to specific biophysiological processes, their
training in the Public Health minor will allow them to understand how social structures shape the
health of individuals and populations, and the political and administrative structure of the U.S.
health care system. This will help them to advance their careers and to take on roles in policy and
administration with a critical lens. It will also help them to understand and respond to the needs
of their patients in a much more holistic and sustainable way.
Students interested in understanding the health impact of social inequities will also be
particularly interested in this minor. These students will likely already have a passion for
understanding the processes through which social inequities operate. However, this minor will
enable them to focus this passion within the domain of population health, and to empirically
understand the ways in which large-scale inequities manifest as health inequities. Further, it will
allow them to understand how to use research to better examine structural inequities and their
impacts on health through the use of epidemiological principles. This training will benefit
students in their pursuit of careers in policy, social work, law and politics.
C. Curriculum Which existing courses will be used to support the new minor? What new
courses will be developed?
All courses used to support this minor are currently existing courses and are listed by
departments in the attached proposal. No new courses will be developed at this time.

D. Instruction Who will teach the courses in the new minor (i.e., which faculty members,
from which departments)?
All Public Health faculty will teach courses in the new minor. In addition, faculty
teaching courses in other departments already approved as Public Health electives will
teach courses in this new minor.
E. Resources What existing curricular resources (facilities, equipment) will be devoted to
the new minor? What additional curricular resources might be needed before the
program can be offered?
Existing curricular resources such as University computer labs, classrooms, and software
(e.g. SPSS) will aid instruction for the new minor. Since all courses are currently
existing courses, it is not anticipated that additional curricular resources will be needed
before the program is offered. Should the demand prove substantial, additional course
sections may be needed in future years.
F. Administration Which department(s) and/or faculty member(s) will have responsibility
for advising students in the new minor?
Once a student has declared a minor in Public Health, they will meet with one of our five
full-time tenured/tenure-track faculty.
Catalog Description
Public Health Minor
Sponsoring Departments: Public Health, Politics, Economics & Law, Psychology, and Sociology
In this minor, students will learn about how our social, political and economic
environment shapes population health, about the structure of the US health system, and about
how to apply the empirical skills of epidemiology. They will also gain expertise in major topic
areas (see electives, below).
Requirements:
Students minoring in Public Health are required to complete a minimum of 5 courses and
18 credit hours. No more than one course may be applied from the student’s academic major.
No more than one course in the minor may be transferred from another institution. Each course
in the minor must be completed with a grade of C or higher.
The five courses are distributed as follows:
A. Required Core Courses (12 credits):
-PH3600: Introduction to the Social Determinants of Health
-PH3610: Introduction to the U.S. Health Care System
-PH4800: Epidemiology

B. Elective Courses
Students must take a minimum of two of the following elective courses (8 credits total):
Public Health:
-PH 2900 Black Lives Matter: Health Inequities in the U.S.
-PH3200 Nutrition and Society
-PH3700 Medical Anthropology
-PH4600 Health Program Planning and Evaluation
-PH4450 Human Sexuality
-PH4610 Women’s Health
-PH4631 Mental Health
-PH4650 Substance Use: Social and structural determinants
-PH4661 Health Education
-PH4750 Aging and Social Policy
-PH4760 Health Administration
-PH4770 Occupational Health
-PH4790 Health Policy
-PH4810 Ethics in Public Health
-PH4850 Global Health
-PH4890 Environmental Justice
-PH4820 Health Law
-PH4920 Special Topics in Public Health
Politics, Economics & Law:
-PE4430 Health Economics
Psychology:
-PY 3020 Health Psychology
Sociology:
-SY3750 Medical Sociology