Resolution for Proposal for
A Micro-Credential in the Foundations of Nonprofit Management
WHEREAS, the School of Professional Studies proposed a Micro-Credential in the
Foundations of Nonprofit Management, and
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential would help students cultivate the basic skills and
competences needed to manage a nonprofit organizations, and
WHEREAS, training skilled professionals to serve nonprofit organizations is closely aligned
with the College’s Mission,
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential would enhance students’ employment opportunities
in nonprofit organizations, and
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential consists of two undergraduate courses which are
part of an undergraduate degree and a minor, and
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential is built on existing courses and thus requires no
additional resources,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the proposed MicroCredential in the Foundations of Nonprofit Management.

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), May 8, 2020
The Proposal approved by CAP on May 8, 2020
[CAP Membership]
Maria C. Bustamante, Tejas Bouklas, Ruomei Gao,Yu Lei, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Lorenz
Neuwirth, Sheyi Oladipo, Frank Sanacory, Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)

Proposal for Micro-Credential in Foundations of Nonprofit Management
School of Professional Studies, April 30, 2020
A. Purpose
The Foundations of Nonprofit Management is designed for students holding or aspiring
to leadership positions in not-for-profit organizations. Its courses cultivate the basic
skills and competences needed to manage the administrative, financial, basic
infrastructure and governance aspects of a Nonprofit organization. The Micro-Credential
will be available to currently enrolled students as well as members of the larger Long
Island community with a desire to gain certified enhancement of their skills in these
areas. The Micro-Credential and its courses do not compete with any existing program.
B. Demand
The New York/Long Island region is home to thousands of nonprofit organizations that
provide a wide variety of invaluable services to the community, filling the gap of services
provided by the public and private sectors. In the five eastern-most towns of Suffolk
County alone there are “over 1,075 registered nonprofit organizations that provide basic
needs, leadership on sustainability and environmental issues, preservation and
presentation of arts and culture, and educational support.”1 To provide these services,
the Nonprofits employ over 100,000 people and pay over $5,000,000 in wages and
salaries.2 To maintain their staffing, Nonprofits on Long Island collectively recruit
hundreds of new employees at any one time. One online jobs site lists a total of 862 full
and part-time jobs in Nonprofits within 25 miles of Old Westbury, while a second site
has listings for 566 full-time positions.3
In terms of employer demand for the specific skills and competencies certified by the
Micro-Credential, the two courses it will include were designed by the consultants
contracted to help design the Congregational Leadership minor as its “Professional
Skills” requirement. One of them managed several congregations over the course of 15
years and ended his career as the executive director of the Long Island Council of
Churches. The other earned an MBA from Molloy College with a specialization in
nonprofit management, and has since held several managerial positions in nonprofit
organizations. In addition, an informal telephone survey was conducted with
administrators at randomly selected Nonprofits, and of the four who responded, all
agreed that the Micro-Credential would be helpful to both distinguish a candidate and
make the selection process more efficient. As one said, “it would help the candidate to
have the credential and could make the hiring process go more quickly.”
To gauge student demand, a survey was administered to students in three SPS
classes: Marketing for Professionals, Supervision for Professionals, and Financial
Administration of Nonprofits. Twenty of 29 respondents, 69%, said that they would be
1

http://www.aftee.org/not-for-profits/. Accessed 3/2/18.
Long Island’s Not-For-Profit Sector: Doing More with Less During a Period of Economic Change”, The
Long Island Association, Inc., June, 2011, p. 6. Available at
http://www.licf.org/Portals/0/Uploads/Documents/latest_non_profit_study_lo_res.pdf. Accessed 3/2/18.
3
https://www.indeed.com/jobs?q=Non-Profit&l=Old+Westbury%2C+NY;
https://www.simplyhired.com/search?q=non+profit&l=Old+Westbury%2C+NY&job=f4Qy195iQPmJREJSg
nN_MlDok7fvmrFUMiktEomkprzKQQtmumMuXg. Both accessed 8/27/19.
2

interested in the Micro-Credential. Considering Old Westbury’s venerable commitment
to promoting social justice and community engagement, it seems natural that the
College would support its students’ and its community’s ability to translate their good
intentions into effective action.
C. Resources
Courses offered by the School of Professional Studies for the Micro-Credential are
already being offered as major electives and part of the Congregational Leadership
minor, which the School of Professional Studies offers in collaboration with the History
and Philosophy Department. These uses populate them enough to sustain them but not
to fill them. These classes are scheduled on the weekends, when the physical facilities
of the College are under-utilized, or online, and they are taught by adjunct faculty, so
instructional costs are modest and easily met on a class-by-class basis.
The instructors who teach these courses will be working professionals with directly
relevant training and experience. For example, one current instructor, Ms. Allison
Puglia, earned a Bachelors in Education at Coastal Carolina University and Masters in
Social Policy from SUNY Empire State College, and now works as Vice-President of
Island Harvest Food Bank. Another, Mr. Peter Suhr earned a Master of Science in
Education from Hofstra University, taught business courses at the secondary and
college levels, has served as the Philanthropy Chair of the New York Alternative
Investment Roundtable, and as Program Director for ParentJobNet.org, helping parents
of low-income schoolchildren in Harlem enter educational, job training and career
placement programs. Both have already taught the courses they are scheduled to
teach twice, have been observed to be effective instructors, and have garnered positive
student evaluations. The professional qualifications of both have been reviewed and
endorsed by the Nonprofit members of the SPS’s External Advisory Board, who will be
involved in identifying new adjuncts should new ones be required to replace or
supplement these two.
D. Cost, Financial Aid, Stackability, Portability, and Unique Title
Since the Foundations of Nonprofit Management Micro-Credential will involve two
credit-bearing courses, the cost will be the regular per-credit cost for these classes.
Financial aid will be available for matriculated students who take the two classes as part
of their degree program (similar to a minor), but not for non-matriculated students. The
Micro-Credential will be stackable to the minor in Congregational Leadership and one
class can count as the major elective for students in the BPS in Professional Studies
program. Students will be able to apply one transferred course toward the MicroCredential, but will need to take at least one course at Old Westbury. The courses the
Micro-Credential includes are regular credit-bearing Old Westbury classes, and
therefore will typically be transferrable to other SUNY institutions. Information about
these items will be included in all marketing materials publicizing it. The name
“Foundations of Nonprofit Management” is not the title of any registered degree or
certificate program.
E. Assessment
The Micro-Credential will be assessed along with the other programs of the School of
Professional Studies as part of its regular five year review process.

F. Additional Materials
Following is draft catalog copy for the Micro-Credential.
G. Endorsements
The five members of the School of Professional Study’s Nonprofit Advisory Committee
have endorsed this proposal. The School of Professional Studies Faculty Advisory
Committee approved it by a vote of 7 to 0.

Foundations of Nonprofit Management MicroCredential
Sponsoring school: Professional Studies
The Foundations of Nonprofit Management Micro-Credential is designed for students
holding or aspiring to leadership positions in nonprofit organizations. It consists of two
courses, one on the managerial and the other on financial issues that leaders of
nonprofit organizations face. Students successfully completing the requirements of the
Micro-Credential will be prepared to help manage a nonprofit organization’s operations,
finances, and planning.

Requirements
Students are required to take 8 credits by completing both of the following courses with
a grade of B or higher:
PS3625
PS4630

Nonprofit Stewardship
Financial Administration of Nonprofits

4 credits
4 credits

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students who complete these courses at the stipulated level will have demonstrated:
•

Understanding of the role and structure of the nonprofit sector.

•

Knowledge of the management issues that arise within nonprofit organizations and
how to use this knowledge to successfully lead one.

•

Understanding of public governance and how to participate in and contribute to
public policy-making as a leader of a nonprofit organization.

•

Knowledge of basic accounting principles, financial statements, financial planning
processes, and audit and reporting requirements as they pertain to nonprofits.

•

An ability to use that knowledge to perform basic analyses of nonprofits’ finances
and use them in operations and planning.

•

An understanding of how to communicate this knowledge and the results of these
analyses to organizational leadership, board members, and community
stakeholders.

Other Considerations
At most one of the two classes can be transferred from another institution. Both classes
can count toward the Congregational Leadership minor, and one can count as the major
elective in the BPS in Professional Studies major.