Faculty Senate Chair Report
Submitted by: Andrew Mattson
November 2, 2018

   1. SPAAR Task Force Update:  The Task Force will meet for the first time
      on November 9, 2018. The Co-Chairs are Dr. Amanda Frisken & Mr.
      Michael Kinane. The Task Force is expected to complete its work by the
      beginning of the spring semester so that the work of the SPAAR
      Committee (SPAARC) can begin.  Note: the creation of SPAARC may
      require changes to the Faculty Bylaws. The members of the Task Force
      are:

         o Administration (appointed by the president.)

               ▪ Academic Affairs – Mr. Anthony Barbera, Assistant Vice
                 President

               ▪ Business and Finance – Mr. Len Davis, Sr. Vice President
                 Business and Finance and CFO

               ▪ Institutional Advancement – Dr. Wayne Edwards, Vice
                 President of Institutional Advancement/Executive Director
                 College Foundation

               ▪ Administration – Mr. William Kimmins, Assistant to the
                 President for Administration

               ▪ Public and Media Relations – Mr. Michael Kinane, Vice
                 President of Communications and Chief Communications
                 Officer

               ▪ Enrollment Services – Ms. Mary Marquez Bell, Vice
                 President for Enrollment Services

               ▪ Student Affairs – Mr. Usama Shaikh, Vice President of
                 Student Affairs and Chief Diversity Officer

         o Faculty Governance (nominated by Governance, appointed by the
           President.)

               ▪ School of Arts and Sciences – Dr. Jillian Crocker,
                 Assistant Professor, Sociology

               ▪ School of Arts and Sciences – Dr. Amanda Frisken,
                 Professor, American Studies

               ▪ School of Business – Dr. Yu Lei, Assistant Professor,
                 Management, Marketing and Finance

               ▪ Faculty Senate Chair – Mr. Andy Mattson, Faculty Senate
                 Chair (Instructor, American Studies)

               ▪ School of Education – Dr. Stephanie Schneider, Assistant
                 Professor, Childhood Education and Literacy

   2. Senate & Committee Vacancies: The Faculty Senate Chair fills committee
      vacancies that remain unfilled after the election.

         o New Faculty Senator At Large:  The retirement of Dr. Kathleen
           Greenberg created a vacancy that has been filled by the
           appointment of Michael Kavic (CP) for 2018-2019.

         o CAP: One vacancy filled by the appointment of Sheyi Oladipo
           (PEL) for 2018-2019.

         o FUAC: Three vacancies by the appointments of Geta Techanie
           (MCIS) Laura Anker (DSP, AS/FYE) Rita Colon-Urban (DTP-BS) for
           2018-2019.

         o LEC: Basic Writing Domain Vacancy filled by the appointment of
           Anahi Douglas (EL) for 2018-2019. Humanities Domain Vacancy
           filled by the appointment of Kyle Anderson (HI) for 2018-2019.

   3. Possible New Business? A summary of the concerns raised at Governance
      Orientation on 10/19:

         o Faculty Sharing/Collaboration/Community: Space for collaborative
           & intellectual activity, programming for sharing teaching tools,
           speed rounds, brown bags.  Library as collaborative space?

         o Healthy Food: place to gather where the food is community.

         o Budget & Resources: transparency, access to budget information.
           Resources for technology, transportation, departments.  Problem
           of submitting requests instead of transparent budgeting,
           participatory budgeting.

         o Facilities:  Temperature, mold, signage, how to work
           w/facilities, work orders, doors & locks: universal
           access/safety, cleanliness: library & restrooms, recycling of
           paper?

         o SGA concerns raised: Registering for classes, conditions of
           science building, equipment, mold. Problem of advising for
           incoming FY, misadvising of requirements?

         o 360 review of administration functions.