SUNY / College at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate
Meeting Minutes - February 1, 2002
Present: N. Rosenthal, R. Colon-Urban, J. Lloyd, K. Wood, M. Dolan, C. Wright, M. Barrett, J.
Llana, W. Shenouda, J. Edelson, M. Colaneri, C. Franco, A. Martinez, I. Ahmed, M. Teloki, A.

Barbera, M. Metlay, M. Keizer, S. Mahmoud, C. Hobson, M. Keefe, M Crocitto, T. DelGiudice,
S. Chovnik, S. O’Connor, S. Kirkpatrick
Visitors: C. Anderson, R. Gonzalez, R. Brown, N. Sacks, C. Wardell, M. Rankin, R.
Buttermilch, V. Remeza, M. Kinane, Z. Madurka

1.

Approval of Minutes
Two corrections were made to the December 7" minutes: (1) M. Keefe was omitted from
the attendance list; and (2) the College plan to move from category 4 to 3 (not 5 to 4) was
deemed too aggressive by SUNY (page 3, item 6a). The minutes were accepted
unanimously as amended.

2. Chair’s Report (N. Rosenthal)
a. The Executive Committee suggested seven faculty members to serve on the committee to
develop a coherent mission statement: Anker, Jones, Lloyd, Mukherji, Nieto, Zwerman,

and a representative from the Business programs. The slate was accepted unanimously.
b. The Full Faculty meeting has been moved to February 15" to accommodate a conflict in
the President’s schedule. Senators were urged to encourage all faculty to attend.
c. Faculty attendance at winter graduation was disappointing. The chair urged Senators to
contact her if they have any explanations or solutions for this problem.
d. There will be a brown bag lunch for new faculty (hired since Fall 2000) during the
February 13" common hour in B135. Issues and resources particular to new faculty will
be discussed.
e. The Chair reported on an adjunct faculty member who, after teaching two courses per
year for 15 years, was not rehired. There was some concern that the event was related to
several articles authored by this adjunct that were critical of President Butts. Although
adjuncts have no contract rights, faculty should have an ethics policy for adjunct hiring.
This will be placed on the agenda of the next Senate meeting.
Report on the Executive Committee meeting with President Butts
The Executive Committee met with President Butts on January 14" to
surrounding the budget and planning process and the land legislation.
address the first item in his report. She noted that the upcoming land
the 300 acre set-aside and not to current construction projects.
4. Questions/Comments

(R. Colon-Urban)
discuss issues
The President will
legislation is related to

The “rolling thunder” common hour schedule will be implemented in Fall 2002, with a
widely published events calendar. Several concerns were raised about common hour: (1) it
lacks coordination; (2) it is confusing for new students; and (3) the changing schedule will
not facilitate regular club meetings. Regarding the funding of common hour events, M.
Rankin reported the following: of the $30,000 budgeted for common hour activities, $21,000
was spent on events. The remaining $9,000 was spent on events but cannot be accounted
1

for. The Executive committee will attempt to clarify the process for scheduling and
publicizing events. There will be a post-assessment to identify problems with the schedule.
5.

Report from the President (C. Butts)
a. Dr. Butts met with the Chancellor to discuss the current year’s $600,000 shortfall and the
projected $5 million shortfall in the 2002/2003 budget. He reported a favorable, though
not affirmative response, and remains hopeful that we will be able maintain current
levels. Dr. Butts plans to meet with the Governor to emphasize that our needs are for
basic operating expenses, to carry out the recommendations of Middle States and the
plans outlined in the MOU.
b. The dormitories are on schedule, with two of the five buildings expected to be complete
in August. The Student Union is due to be finished in May. Future budgets include
operation of these buildings. We are moving forward on the Day Care and Equestrian

centers.

6. Questions/ Comments

In response to a question about Spring enrollment, Dr. Butts reported that we are at 101% of
target, with transfer students up 28% and first-time-to-college students slightly low. There
were no EOP students admitted this semester.

7. Report from the Academic Vice President (R. Gonzalez)

Five sabbaticals have been approved, one full year and four /% years. Almost 60% of faculty
are eligible for sabbatical. Review of majors continues (Industrial and Labor Relations,
Math and Psychology).

8.

Report from the Budget and Planning Committee (M. Dolan)

The BPC met on January 1 and January 31. A summary of these meetings is attached. L.
Davis provided the committee with a snapshot of the budget and an overview of allocations.
Several faculty members of the BPC met in anticipation of today’ s Senate meeting, but no
consensus was reached about whether to support the upcoming resolution. The BPC faculty
charged M. Dolan to develop a set of procedures for committee operation, which the BPC
does not presently have. A draft, entitled Requirements for Effective Budget / Planning
Process, is attached to the minutes.

9.

Resolution on the Budget and Planning Committee (Llana)
a. The resolution to withdraw Senate-approved faculty participants from the, BPC was
presented and discussed.
b. Those speaking in support of the motion pointed out that the committee does not function
well; it was not consulted on major budget decisions last year; has not seen a budget nor
made any decisions concerning budget. To remain on the committee sends the message
that there is faculty participation in and approval of this process.
c. Senators who opposed the motion noted that it was frightening to have no input in
decision-making at this crucial time, when retrenchments are threatened, and that the

fiscal officer is new and the flow of information has been delayed. If governance
withdraws from the table, some faculty will continue to serve and this will polarize the
faculty.

d. Of the faculty members on the BPC, four wanted to remain, two to withdraw and one was

unsure.

e. A friendly amendment was made to replace the last paragraph of the resolution with the
following:

Therefore, be it resolved that the faculty shall withdraw its representatives and

leadership from the BPC unless there is compelling evidence that the requirements for an
effective budget and planning process have been implemented, or have made significant
progress toward implementation, no later than April 1°
The resolution, so amended, was approved [9-6-7].
10. University Faculty Senate Report (M. Dolan)
a. The University Senate addressed the issue of tuition increases to offset budget cuts.
Compared to other states, SUNY’s tuition is in the middle on a per student basis, but is

near bottom on a per capita basis. A resolution was approved to develop a rational fiscal
policy that includes increased state support (attached).
b. A task force on the relationship of campus governance leaders and the University Faculty
Senate presented a set of recommendations to improve communication (attached).
c. A resolution to request that the Chancellor include faculty as full members of the strategic
planning group was approved.
d. The Undergraduate Committee has published a revised guide for evaluating
undergraduate programs. M. Dolan will provide copies to chairs.
11. UUP Report (C. Franco)
C. Franco reported on the Union’s response to the budget crisis, which includes a legislative
luncheon, a letter-writing campaign and an ad campaign. A UUP-commissioned poll taken
after Governor Pataki’s State of the State address showed that 80% of New Yorkers favored
additional funding for SUNY. Home district lobbying will take place on February 19-22
and February 25-26 will be NYSUT lobby day.
12. SGA Report (M. Teloki)
A number of vacancies in student government need to be filled for the current academic
year. Faculty were asked to encourage students to participate as long as they have a 2.0
GPA. Contact the SGA president for further information. There will be a Valentines’ Ball
on February 14". Students will be attending lobby day on March 4"; faculty were asked to
excuse students who participate.
13. Announcements
a. There is a new Chancellor’s Award for Scholarship and Creativity, with a March 1*
deadline. Award guidelines will be mailed to faculty.
/
b. John Gardner will be the featured speaker at a symposium on retention at SUNY Cortland
on March 21 - 22. Details attached.
c. There will be a common hour program featuring Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis on February

13".

d. There will be an Angels of Deliverance Program during the March 6" common hour.
Contact C. Wright (x3175) or T. Johnson (x3179) for details.