Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Fall 2020 Report



	Submitted by Joanne Spadaro	

November 27, 2020



I. Membership

The current membership of the Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee consists of three full-time, tenure-streamed faculty members (three of whom have taught one or more OER courses) the OER Librarian (tenured), a full-time, tenure-streamed faculty librarian with knowledge of OER, a student representative designated by the SGA Executive Board, the Manager of Instructional Design, and the OER liaison for Academic Affairs.  Veronika Dolar and Joanne Spadaro serve as co-chairs, and Christa DeVirgilio is the secretary. 



Members

Departments 

Christa DeVirgilio

Library

Veronika Dolar

Politics, Economics & Law

John Estes

Chemistry & Physics

Svetlana Jovic   

Psychology

Cheyenne Sze

Student Government Association

Ex-Officio Members



Barbara Hillery (non-voting member)

Academic Affairs

Chandra Shehigian  (non-voting member)

Information Technology, Instructional Designer

Joanne Spadaro   (voting member)

Library, OER Librarian

 

II. Activities

Meetings

In the fall 2020 semester, the Committee held two online meetings, and continue to carry out its work online.  Three members of the Committee (C. DeVirgilio, B. Hillery, J. Spadaro,) also serve as Leads for SUNY’s OER initiatives and attend regular meetings with SUNY OER Services online.    



Registered OER Courses – Summer & Fall 2020

The Committee reviews OER course syllabi and course materials to determine whether they meet SUNY’s requirements to be designated as an OER course and identified with the OER attribute in the course registration system.  A course section is designated as OER if more than 50% of the assigned course materials is comprised of open educational resources.  This designation is on a semester-by-semester basis and is at the discretion of the instructors/departments.  The following tables represents the number of courses by departments that were registered in our system and with SUNY for summer and fall 2020.  

Summer 2020

Departments

Courses

CP

3

PE

1

PY

1

Su20 Total

5



Fall 2020

Departments

Courses

BU

1

CP

4

HI

1

MA

7

PE

4

PY

6

SY

2

F20 Total

25



Registered OER Courses - Spring 2021 

On October 7th, the Committee sent an email to faculty asking them to submit their draft SP21 syllabi for review if they wanted to have the courses identified as OER in the registration system. As of this writing, there are 23 courses registered for spring.  Six of those courses are newly developed OER course sections from faculty who are experienced with OER.  Seventeen are repeated courses that were taught in prior semesters.  



SUNY OER Funding/Support

From 2017 to 2020, SUNY provided campus-based funds (https://oer.suny.edu/get-funding) with the expectation that campuses would use those funds to support the adoption and sustained use of OER, as best they saw fit.  At Old Westbury, most of the funds were used to support the faculty incentive stipend program.  

SUNY OER support for 2020-21 includes:

All content and platforms at https://oer.suny.edu remain available at no cost to SUNY faculty and students.

Professional development opportunities available through Lumen Circles (formerly Faculty Guild) remain at no cost to SUNY campuses and faculty.

OER Sustainability 2-Year Cohorts, conducted by SUNY OER Services and the rpk GROUP, for participating campuses will continue.

At present there is no funding for campuses (any available may be based on campus reported OER activity in SIRIS for AY19-20. A per dollar amount would be assigned to each student enrolled in an OER section.). 



Professional Development Opportunities 

The Committee kept the faculty informed about OER related conferences, webinars, workshops, and training opportunities by email.  These include: the 2020 Creative Commons G​lobal Summit; Open Education Conference; Stony Brook's Annual OER Colloquium; Lumen Circles Fellowships; OER as a Part of Your Course: An Open Discussion (SUNY OER Services and OLI); Finding, Understanding, and Integrating OER (University at Buffalo); Open Pedagogy (University at Buffalo); and SUNY OER Services and SUNY Strong Start to Finish: OER & Corequisite English and Math Courses.  On August 28, 2020, J. Spadaro provided the Open Educational Resources (OER) & Creative Commons webinar for faculty.  That webinar was offered through the SUNY Old Westbury Library and Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CETL). 



III.  Future Planning

The Committee is planning to have a faculty OER roundtable featuring presentations by faculty teaching with OER.  We are also planning a spring event for students in collaboration with SGA.  Both events will take place on Zoom.   





2 | Page