Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                           Friday, April 24, 2015



Senators Presents: Fernando Guerrero (Vice Chair/ML, presiding), Robert
Gero (Secretary/Treasurer/VA), Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian),  Kathie
Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Costas Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large),
Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Caroline Sawyer (University Senator
Alternate/Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman
(Professional), Alonzo McCollum (Professional),  Ana Martinez
(Professional), Laura Anker (First Year Experience), Jason Kaloudis
(Library), Shalei Simms (MMF Dept.), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence
Education), Amanda Frisken (American Studies), Michael Colaneri (Chemistry
& Physics), Amara Graf (English), Frank Sanacory (Math/CIS), Tom Delgiudice
(PEL), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Martha Livingston (Public Health), Laura
Limonic (Sociology).

Senators Absent: Kathleen Velsor (Chair), Minna Barrett (University
Senator), Frank C. Ilozue (SGA), Camilla Swasey (SGA), Jeffrey D’amico
(Accounting), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Diana Sukhram
(Exceptional Education), ), Manya Mascareno (Biological Studies), Juan
Galvis (H&P), Chris Hobson (ARPT Com.), Cary Lange (CAP), Zenaida Madurka
(HLCC), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLRC), ), Jacob Heller (FRR Committee).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP),
Wayne Edwards (VP Student Affairs), Mary Marquez Bell (VP Enrollment).

Visitors Present: Duncan Quarless (Chemistry), David Ralston (Math/CIS),
Rafat Sada (Enrollment).

   I. Call to Order: 12:35 pm

  II. Approval of minutes of April 10, 2015

      Minutes were unanimously accepted by voice vote.


 III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report


      Dr. Fernando Guerrero, Vice-Chair, presided at the meeting in absence
      of Dr. Velsor who was attending a State Wide Meeting in Plattsburg.
      Flyers were handed out announcing the tuition rallies on April 30 and
      May 4th and faculty were asked to distribute them in their departments
      and talk about it with their students. The rallies were held in the
      Atrium of the Campus Center and the Old Westbury Radio Station and
      Newspaper participated to promote the events. This was the beginning
      of an effort to initiate action on many issues including, TAP
      allocation, Dream Act and adjuncts.
      A sample letter to be sent to state legislators about the budget was
      also distributed. Sending a letter constitutes immediate action, but
      the group of faculty involved in organizing the rallies is interested
      in creating a movement that will last longer. Other SUNY colleges are
      doing the same. Maybe we will create a coalition next year to work on
      this.

  IV. President’s Report

      The President is unable to attend.

   V. Provost’s Report

      The Provost distributed a packet of including a two page document from
      Len Davis with the Highlights of the Enacted Budget on SUNY, which
      faculty were encouraged to read and share with their departments.
      Other items included an article from the Chronicle of Higher
      Education, about retention and another one about shared governance,
      which faculty were also encouraged to share with colleagues.
      The Provost addressed the issue of the budget and clarified a few
      points about enrollment. He emphasized that what is crucial with
      enrollment is the mixture of students that we enroll. It would be
      ideal for us to have about 500 graduate students enrolled because we
      are rewarded financially when we have a higher graduate enrollment.
      The reality of the budget is that we won’t be able to hire any faculty
      unless we get the right mix of students, so we have to continue to
      target graduate degrees. We have three degrees in School of Business:
      Forensic & Accounting, Health Care Management and Entrepreneurship.
      The School of Education has Special Education and also has Literacy.
      Jacob Heller is working on a graduate degree in Social Science
      Research and Data Analysis, and Frank Sanacory has been working for a
      while in Data Analytics.
      Mary Marquez Bell was asked to give enrollment targets for
      undergraduate and graduate students both in state and out of state
      from 2015 out to 2020.  We currently have 110 graduate students, but
      we projected an enrollment of 600. Of course if we don’t have the
      degrees we won’t get to the target.


      The Provost also addressed the issue of salary compression. Recently
      new faculty have been hired with higher salaries than faculty that
      have been working here for 8 to 10 years. He indicated that we have
      associate professors, particularly in SAS, making lower salaries than
      newly hired faculty.  The Provost was asked by a department not to pay
      a new hire more than the associate professors, but when he followed
      that rule he wasn’t able to hire anyone in that area for two years
      because offering such a low salary isn’t competitive in the market
      place. It doesn’t help anybody for the Provost to bring people in on a
      lower salary because the idea is not to lower everyone’s salary but
      rather fairly compensate faculty at all levels. The Provost
      acknowledged that Associate Professors are key to getting the work
      done in every department and should be compensated for their efforts.
      He indicated that he had a meeting scheduled with Dr. Butts to discuss
      salary compression. The Provost has a list of about 26 to 28 people
      who need an immediate remediation in regard to their salaries. He
      stated that he will make the argument to put a certain amount of money
      aside to address the salary inequity. He indicated that we also have
      to look at faculty currently working as staff. It is not only
      important to hire, but also to retain faculty. We are currently
      spending in terms of tuition and state support almost the entire
      amount on payroll. The Provost emphasized that the administration is
      aware of salary compression and is willing to do something about it.
      He will report to the faculty as soon as he has more information about
      it.


      The Provost encouraged faculty to discuss possibilities for grant
      writing with their departments. He explained that grants are important
      for individuals, the College and for research. There needs to be some
      incentive for departments and faculty in order for us to encourage
      grant writing. The Provost indicated that at New Paltz the department
      gets a percent of the amount of the grant a professor receives. This
      could serve as an incentive.
      Finally, the Provost thanked Ryoko Yamamoto for organizing the TLC
      Conference, to Zenaida Madurka, head of HLCC, for the wonderful
      musical concert, and to Ed Bever who prepared students for a Model UN
      conference held between 145 universities where our students got an
      honorable mention.

      The Provost invited Dr.Wayne Edwards, VP of Student Affairs, to
      discuss Academic Interaction in the Residence Halls. Dr. Edwards
      explained that we are moving forward with what we call Faculty
      Engagement in Residence Halls. The premise behind the initiative is
      that studies show that increased student engagement with faculty
      outside the classroom leads to higher graduation rates. We are hoping
      to create a less formal interaction with students in the residence
      halls. Dr. Edwards established a committee and subcommittee with
      several students to see what type of topics they would like faculty to
      discuss. He indicated that initially we will start with talks once a
      month. He will send out an email soliciting faculty participation.


      In regards to the Residence Hall GPA Requirement, Dr. Edwards said one
      of the reasons why this was put in place years ago was because at that
      time the Residence Hall population was very different from what it is
      now. At that time we had a lot of problems created by students who
      were not doing well academically and didn’t care about their
      academics, but only wanted to have a place to live. The establishment
      of the GPA requirement was a way to indicate to those students that
      they had to at least maintain a certain level of academic success if
      they wanted to remain living in the residence halls on campus. Dr.
      Edwards acknowledged that kicking a student out of the residence halls
      after not succeeding academically their first semester at college is
      an issue and we need to look at that.



  VI. Old Business

    • Social Justice Component Resolution


      A senator reported that the faculty in her department expressed
      concern about the resolution because it explicitly directs departments
      as to how their curriculum must be carried out. While her department
      fundamentally agrees with the social justice mission of the college,
      the faculty opposes the resolution because it undermines the full
      authority of departments to determine their curriculum.
      Another senator indicated that we need to revise the language for
      faculty who want to vote on it.
      A faculty member made several critical points about the resolution.
      First, he stated that in paragraph one of the resolution, which is
      simply a copy of the college mission, the phrase social justice
      doesn’t appear, but rather the phrase, “a more just and sustainable
      world.” The faculty member also mentioned the need for us to come up
      with a more explicit definition of social justice because people
      define it differently in each discipline. In Paragraph 2 of the
      resolution it says the current curriculum, as described in the
      Undergraduate and Graduate Bulletins does not explicitly identify any
      particular “Social Justice Components”, which is false. He stated that
      the diversity requirement began in order to expose students to various
      forms of diversity and the connection between diversity and Social
      Justice. He suggested that if the diversity requirement is not
      satisfying the Social Justice mission of the college, then perhaps we
      should rewrite this to straightening out the requirement rather than
      impose something new on every department.
      The resolution indicates that every department will need to define
      their own way to implement this, but then in paragraph 9 there is call
      for a central committee to evaluate their implementation, which seems
      to be a contradiction. Departments are supposed to implement a social
      justice component in their curriculum and a central committee will to
      enforce it. Finally, the faculty member stated that he never thought
      he would see a faculty senate resolution calling for more
      administrative operation.


      The chair of Gen Ed, Mandy Frisken, explained that the spirit of the
      resolution is exactly to encourage faculty to discuss how they define
      their approach to social justice. The American Studies Department’s
      approach to social justice may be different than the Math
      Department’s. We also want to have students thinking about how they
      are applying social justice in the real world. Part of what we have
      being doing since 1965 is just having the discussion; what does Social
      Justice mean to whom and why. These are valuable and important
      discussion to have. The other issue raised is whether or not social
      justice should be approached through majors or through Gen Ed. We need
      to discuss what we think is the best approach. We do have a diversity
      requirement in Gen Ed. Dr. Frisken disagreed that the central focus of
      the diversity requirement is social justice. She explained that the
      central focus of the diversity requirement is cultural understanding
      with a gesture towards social justice. We could change that and call
      it Social Justice or revise it and come up with a common definition,
      and that would be the work of the General Education Committee.
      A senator suggested a campus wide conversation about the mission of
      the college as part of the 50th Anniversary Celebration.
      Guerrero thanked everyone who contributed to clarifying the debate and
      added that he understands that nobody is try to impose a particular
      aspect of Social Justice, but just wants to know what every department
      understands by Social Justice and how faculty are addressing this in
      their departments. It was also noted that when OW is evaluated in
      Social Justice we won’t do well. Students are illiterate about what
      Social Justice means and maybe we need to push it a little bit.
      A senator reiterated that her department discussed the resolution and
      some faculty feel strongly that no one should impose any change in
      their curriculum, their program or major description, even though they
      fundamentally agree with the social justice mission of the college.
      Another senator said that the CAP Committee has a mechanism for a Five
      Year  Review and the social justice aspect of the curriculum could be
      enforced this way instead of creating a different process to review
      this.
      Senators proposed creating a separate committee to revise the
      resolution and Jacob Heller was mentioned as a possible chair of this
      committee.


 VII. New Business

    • New Resolution on departmental Authority in Non-Rehiring
      Decision Relating to Contingent Faculty.


      Dr. Livingston expressed that we don’t want this to happen again and
      the process has to be transparent. In the last meeting we agreed to
      get rid of the phrase “development mechanism” and just say the
      administration will communicate potential actions.


      After the call to vote on the resolution as amended the resolution
      passed unanimously.

      Nomination for Chair of Faculty Senate

    • Send your nominations for faculty chair by email.

VIII. Adjournment at 2:22 pm. April 24, 2015