PUBLIC INTEREST
RESEARCH GROUP;

To:

From:
Subject:

Date:

SUNY Old Westbury Faculty

Rhesa Ramdeen, NYPIRG Project Coordinator
March 11th Rally in Albany
February 19, 2003:

Dear Faculty Member,

Governor Pataki has released the new budget for New York State, and it is devastating
for higher education. The budget includes proposals such as a $1200 tuition increase, a 1/3 cut

to the Tuition Assistance Program (TAP), a 50% cut to the Educational Opportunity Program
(EOP), elimination of the Collegiate-Science and Technology Entry Program (C-STEP), and a

cut of $184 million to the SUNY operating budget. These proposals, if put into effect, will not

only be devastating to the lives of students but will also adversely affect anyone who is affiliated
with the college, including faculty. To make matters worse, this combination of a massive
tuition hike plus cuts to financial aid comes at a time when many students already find it very
difficult to afford a college education.

With cuts to the SUNY operating budget, students are being asked to pay more and get
less. It is expected that class availability will be severely limited, there will be cuts to various

services like library hours and computer lab hours, as well as major cuts to faculty lines. Mr.
Candelario Franco, United University Professionals (UUP) chapter president for Old Westbury
has estimated that over 4000 professors will be laid off from the SUNY system if these proposals
are approved by the State Legislature. Students, faculty and staff at Old Westbury and colleges
across the state must join together to fight these proposed cuts to higher education.
On Tuesday, March 11th, thousands of people will attend a rally for higher education in
Albany. We need your help. First, we would like to invite you to come to Albany and
participate in the rally. Additionally, we also ask that you help us spread the word and
encourage your students to attend. Furthermore, if you teach classes on Tuesdays, we ask that
you allow interested students to attend the rally without penalty. We are aware that some
teachers may have midterms scheduled on that day, which creates a very tough situation for both
students and faculty. Perhaps you can provide a midterm makeup date for the students want to
attend the rally, or even reschedule the exam.

Professors who do not have classes on Tuesdays

can even help encourage students to attend the rally by giving some form of extra credit to those

who attend. Of course, we will provide you with a list of students who attend the event for your

records. We also ask that you allow us a couple minutes in your classes to talk to students about
these and other upcoming events.
These efforts are essential to ensure that students organize to have their voices heard in
9 MURRAY STREET
c
OFFI
es
IN:

@

NEW

YORK,

ALBANY,
NEW YORK

NEW

PUBLIC

YORK

10007-2272

BUFFALO,

INTEREST RESEARCH

NEW

GROUP

@ recycled paper

¢
FUND

212°349-6460
[ev

YORK C€

* WWW.NYPIRG.ORG

°

&

FAX 212-349Ss.

x

R

c