From

"Full

Faculty

Meeting

Minutes

- May

14,

1999"

Whitten, N. Rosenthal, H. Teoh, A. Blasius, G. Zwerman, J. Fernandez, M. Adams and E.
Landy. She stated that they had come to a conclusion and had unanimity.
E. Landy explained the difference between compression and disparity. Compression
would be i.e., hired in 1978 @ $14,000 as an Assistant Professor; hired in 1999 @38,000 for
the same title. Your 20-years of service is based on salary that has been compressed over
time. She said that this occurred across SUNY, not just at Old Westbury. Disparity is
differences in salaries for people of similar ranks and time of service.
There was much discussion among the faculty present about compression and disparity.

Several faculty expressed the opinion that we must create unity among the faculty.

and R. Mukherji presented the following motion:

E. Landy

Motion:
Whereas, At this critical juncture in our history and in the interest of:
ecreating unity - among the faculty and between administration and faculty;
eimproving morale;
eusing our energy and talents in ways most productive for the College;
Whereas, In the last round of discretionary money in this contract, with the understanding and
experiences of past problems and dissension resulting from the discretionary process, and in
keeping with previous Senate, Union and DSI Committee suggestions, we recommend that we
break with past practice and move to address the enormous problems of compression and
disparity resulting from years of neglect of these issues;

;
Q

Whereas other SUNY institutions have identified and dispersed substantial sums of money
outside the 1% DSI towards redressing serious compression and disparity among their faculty
and staff;
And Whereas, in some campuses, administrations have chosen not to accept percent increases
in salaries and have instead elected to pool such monies to address campus-wide issues; -

Therefore,

Be it resolved that

1. The College add sufficient money to the 1% DSI (approx. $77, 000) to begin the process of
redressing compression and disparity;
2. The total of monies- DSI! and additional money - be used solely for redressing these issues;
3. The Administration, in consultation with the faculty, develop a system after examination of

existing models i.e., those at Purchase and Geneseo - and modify or adapt such a model to the

needs of Old Westbury;
4. The model so adopted should be disseminated to the college community;
5. In the spirit of the resolution and collegiality, we further recommend that faculty do not
participate in the DSI process either by serving on the DSI committee or by submitting individual
files;
6. We recognize that this is a dynamic process moving towards both a step system for salaries
and towards a long-range solution that recognizes excellence in a meaningful way. For
example, promotions and awards should be accompanied by substantial financial rewards.

The motion was passed unanimously.

wW