TO:
FROM:
RE:

SUNY University Faculty Senate
Equity, Inclusion and Diversity Committee
Resolution: Maintaining Welcoming, Inclusive and Safe Campus
Environments through Annually Affirming SUNY Diversity and Inclusion
Values
DATE:
183rd Plenary, October 10-12, 2019
LOCATION:
System Administration, Albany
RESOLUTION #: 183-03-01
VOTE TALLY:
For: 41 / Against: 6 / Abstain: 1

RATIONALE:
WHEREAS SUNY lists Diversity, Collaboration, and Community Engagement as three of its
“Core Values,” in alignment of the mission to “provide to the people of New York educational
services of the highest quality, with the broadest possible access, fully representative of all
segments of the population in a complete range of academic, professional and
postsecondary programs”; and
WHEREAS in support of the foci of the SUNY Board of Trustees’ Rules for the Maintenance
of Public Order Policy, adopted June 10, 2009, outlining “the rules for maintenance of public
order (including prohibited conduct), applicability and communication of the rules, and
statements regarding freedom of speech, assembly, picketing and demonstrations on
campuses”; and
WHEREAS the SUNY Board of Trustees’ Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy, adopted via
resolution 2015-53 on September 10, 2015, emphasizes “Climate” as one of its “four core
areas,” citing that “SUNY must implement programs and strategies to establish a welcoming
environment for all” as one of its Guiding Principles; and
WHEREAS in recognition of duties to employ harm prevention/reduction efforts to hostile
climate threats occurring nationally (e.g. recent culturally targeted mass shootings, polarized
national political climate – election year); and
WHEREAS SUNY is a microcosm of the broader nation and world, in which there are many
differing values, experiences, and perspectives; and
WHEREAS acknowledging the critical impact, responsibility and role of leadership in
affirming SUNY values established in maintenance of inclusive campus environments that
welcome, respect, and support all persons, communities, and structures proclaiming human
dignity:

1

RESOLUTION:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the UFS requests the Chancellor require campus
Presidents (or campus equivalent) to annually affirm (communicate) SUNY values and
priorities for equity, diversity and inclusion to all campus stakeholders, in support of
maintaining and enhancing welcoming, inclusive, and safe campus environments.

BACKGROUND:
1. State University of New York. (2015). Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Policy. Retrieved from
https://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=804
2. State University of New York. (n.d.). Strategic Plan, 2010 & Beyond [PDF file]. Retrieved from
https://www.suny.edu/media/suny/contentassets/documents/powerofsuny/SUNY_StrategicPlan.pdf
3. State University of New York. (2009). Rules for the Maintenance of Public Order. Retrieved from
https://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=351

2