Student Life Committee
Annual Report
2013-2014 Academic Year
Committee Members: Co-Chairs: John Friedman (AS) and Antonia DiGregorio
(LIB); Lillian Park (PSY),Stephanie Schneider (ED), Jason Zhu (MMI/SOB), and
Youngjoo Kim (C&P).
About ten meetings were held during the year. Members of the committee listened to
student concerns. Guests from the administration were invited to speak to the committee
to address the issues raised by students.
At our first meeting of the year, the main issues discussed were the ongoing computer
problems on campus, including numerous breakdowns in Internet service that at the
beginning of school took at least a week to fix and the fact that the radio station had no
Internet service for almost a month. We also discussed the loss of computer access for
students in the NAB, the school’s website, campus safety during the renovation, and
parking problems.
At our following meeting, Marc Seybold, chief information officer, was our guest. We
addressed the following issues affecting students:






The lack of functioning labs in the Student Union.
The loss of computer labs for students in the NAB.
A request that NAB labs should be open by 8 a.m.
The fact that computers in the library are slow, and that there are not enough
working computers.
The lack of computer assistance in the library.

The committee passed a resolution that an outside company should be hired to clean up
the Wi-Fi problems.
As the issue of computing services is crucial to student life on campus, at the following
meeting our invited guests were Marc Seybold, and Chen Hui Cao and Alexander
Sartakov of Computer Services. The discussion focused on the problem that the Internet
was consistently going down. Seybold said that he did hire an outside company briefly
but he is not able to hire additional staff due to budget issues.
At the following meeting Michael Kinane, assistant to the president for advancement,
was our invited guest. He demonstrated features of the new Gmail Email system and
noted:
•
•
•
•

Everyone will have oldwestbury.edu. There will be no more Lmail for students.
Everyone will have access to Google drive and the calendar.
Users will have the ability to govern their sources.
Tutorials will be available.

A discussion followed about the new website and OW’s emergency phone line.
Kinane said that the main phone line has been moved to a hard line and therefore
available during emergencies.
At the next meeting, our invited guest was Usama Shaikh, director of residential life. He
talked mainly about the overnight guest policy and mentioned that:






Only same sex people are allowed access after certain hours.
An increased budget is needed to have more police supervision; however,
extensive policing might offend interpersonal residential life and culture.
The study lounge is closed on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights from 10 p.m.
to 8 a.m. due to minimal usage for studying during such times, and there have
been incidents of inappropriate use that included partying and drinking.
Students feel that there is too much policing in residence halls.
Individual residential halls should have different types of policing.

Usama Shaikh met with the committee for a second time to discuss further concerns
raised by students regarding residential life. Subjects discussed included instituting a
new, same sex overnight guest policy which should be similar to the policy for the
opposite sex considering the large LGBT community in the residence halls. Also
discussed was the fact that having to escort guests in and out rooms seems unnecessary.
Shaikh noted:




The residential halls are residences, not a place for large social gatherings or
parties.
He is willing to negotiate and give more freedom to socialize, however, too many
incidents happened in the past which could have led to detention of students and
loss of residency by university police.
There are safety concerns regarding room capacity.

In subsequent meetings, the committee continued to focus on Internet and computer
problems, the residence halls, and a proposed honor code that had been requested by the
Faculty Senate chair.
Professor Lillian Park at a meeting in the spring discussed the need for having a student
honor code at OW. It would appear on every syllabus. Enforcing the code at the faculty
level would reduce plagiarism and cheating tremendously, she told the committee. She
drafted a code that the committee discussed. The committee made changes, voted, and
was prepared to present it to the Faculty Senate whenever requested.
On March 28th, committee co-chairs John Friedman and Antonia DiGregorio presented
an oral report to the faculty senate that stressed student concerns about the Internet and
computer problems on campus. Several faculty members made suggestions that the
Student life Committee should provide more frequent information to the Faculty Senate.
The co-chairs agreed.
Respectfully submitted by

John Friedman and Antonia DiGregorio