SUNY University Faculty Senate – 190th Plenary Session

January 20-22, 2022

Virtual Session

Comprehensive Colleges Sector Meeting  

Remarks by SUNY Board of Trustees Chair Merryl Tisch; 

Q & A with SUNY Interim Chancellor Deborah Stanley

Reports given by: UFS President Keith Landa; Provost-in-Charge Shadi Sandvik; 

SUNY Acting DFO Bob Megna; FCCC President Christy Woods; 

CUNY FS President Martin Burke; SUNY SA President Bradley Hershenson; 

UUP President Fred Kowal; UFS Committee Chairs;





MAJOR TOPICS at the PLENARY



Comprehensive Colleges Concerns

There was general consensus and great concern over enrollment decreases, and the loss of students at “both ends”: 

University Centers are taking in more first-year students (which is hurting the Comprehensive and Community Colleges);

Technology Centers are expanding their curricula and adding more 4- and 6-year degree programs – which is attracting juniors and seniors, as well as masters-level graduate students. 

Some senators were worried about the survival of the Comprehensive Colleges, and of liberal arts education in general, given the increasing focus (and perceived priority) on STEM programs, and more recently on remote and online instruction.

Some upstate senators felt the viability of upstate campuses that are heavily dependent upon residential students threatened if the percentage of online courses continues to increase.  Note also that over the past decade or so, upstate campuses have been losing students to the downstate campuses (moreso than the reverse).

Some senators expressed concerns that among the Comprehensive Colleges offering similar programs and majors, there will be competition for students, which may become more intense with cross-registrations and inter-campus “cooperation”.  Greatest apprehension is that campuses will either  be merged, with individual campuses no longer in control of their programs, or that weaker (significantly less enrolled) programs will ultimately be forced to close or terminated by SUNY Administration.

Staff shortages “everywhere” (e.g. Administrative Assistants) have many frustrated.  One senator reported that her department chair has had to do the Administrative Assistant duties for the department, which has put the chair in conflict with CSEA union.

Many senators expressed the need for more fulltime faculty.  Restrictions on hiring some adjuncts who being paid at the higher end (or “too high”), is limiting how many courses they can teach, as well as departments’ capacity to offer full curricula; 

First-year students, who were in virtual classes their last 18 months in high school, apparently do not know how to function in an in-person college class. (Only one senator actually stated this, but he was quite upset about it.)











Search for New SUNY Chancellor, SUNY Leadership Positions, and Presidential Searches 

Dr. Deborah Stanley (SUNY Oswego) is currently serving as Interim Chancellor.  She has worked in SUNY for over 40 years.  Her degree is in law. She taught for 11 years, then moved into administration.  She had been serving as President of SUNY Oswego, and was expecting to retire after this academic year, when she was tapped to serve as Interim Chancellor.

There will be a national search for a new SUNY Chancellor, with a search firm involved.  This will be a largely confidential process (for the protection of the candidates), and is expected to take less than 18 months.

The climate for a national search has “greatly improved” over the past 3-4 months (UFS Pres. Landa).

Things have settled down in the Governor’s office, with Cuomo’s resignation and former Lt. Gov. Hochul now serving as Governor;

Gov. Hochul has expressed strong support for public education, and gave significant time during her state-of-the-state address last month discussing her aspirations and agenda for SUNY.  She not only wants SUNY to be the premier public higher education system in the country, she wants to increase SUNY’s enrollment by “more than one-third” (from current 370,000 to 500,000 students or more by 2030.

The Executive Budget Request for 2022-2023 is favorably disposed towards SUNY (see below), which should be encouraging to anyone considering the position of SUNY Chancellor.

Several SUNY Administration positions need to be filled, including:  Provost, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Diversity Officer;

Six campuses are in various stages of Presidential Searches:  Empire State, Alfred State, SUNY Polytechnic, SUNY New Paltz, SUNY Oswego and SUNY Potsdam.





The Budget: Overall Status

The state of the NYS economy and SUNY’s potential access to it was positively presented, based on the “good executive budget” proposal for 2022/2023 from Governor Hochul, considered to be a “healthy budget for SUNY” (Bob Megna).

One major factor in SUNY’s favor has been the influx of federal dollars related to Covid-19, and its impact on higher education institutions and the students they serve during the past two years of the pandemic.  SUNY is benefitting here by not having to make hard Covid-related cuts, and can thus ask for additional funding for continued current and/or new purposes.  Secondly, state revenues and tax receipts were reported to also doing better than expected (Bob Megna). 

Governor Hochul has also expressed support for SUNY, and has made additional funding requests of her own (above or in addition to those of last year).

SUNY Board of Trustees Chair Tisch also stated that the Board is/will be devoting considerable time and resources to both advocating for funding from the state legislature, as well as engaging in other activities to attract students to SUNY.

The Executive Budget was submitted on January 18, 2022.  Advocacy, along with further negotiations (bet. Gov. and state legislature) and are ongoing. 

The state legislature can also allocate additional resources into the 22/23 budget that may benefit SUNY.  (Hopefully, they won’t reduce or remove any of the current requests.) 

The final, 2022/2023 Enacted Budget will come out in April.





Some Budget Request Highlights (Bob Megna; Gov. Hochul; SEE: SUNY 2022/2023 Executive Budget Summary:  January 18, 2022.)

“Full support of all funding provided in the 21/22 Enacted Budget with no reductions,”;

100% funding floor for the Community Colleges; (FTE funding to remain flat);

Critical maintenance (of already-existing structures) request for 22/23 remains the same as received in this year’s enacted budget ($550M);

$425M in “new flexible” capital funding, to be used for new construction, programmatic, or critical maintenance projects.

Increased funding for EOCs (by 10%) and EOP (by 10%) above 21/22 enacted funding (ap. $6.6M and $3,860M, respectively);

Total elimination of the “TAP Gap” in 22/23 (vs. the multi-year phase in included in the 21/22 enacted budget/$48.8M requested);

Expansion of TAP to part-time students:  students taking 6+ credits at a SUNY, CUNY, would be eligible for a pro-rated TAP award (Gov. Hochul);

Restoration of TAP award eligibility for incarcerated individuals (removed in 1995) (Gov. Hochul);

Increased funding for expansion of child care across SUNY; ($10.8M in “new, one-time, Direct State Tax Support”, including $5.4M for new child care facilities on Community College campuses);

New funding requested for faculty hires ($53M); 

48% of (ap. $225M) requested for employee benefits;

The Clean Water, Clean Air and Green Jobs Act of 2022: proposal for establishing a $4.0B bond act for funding related projects;

An additional legislative change being proposed by Gov. Hochul is the cessation of “transcript withholding” – that no institutions of postsecondary education in NYS can withhold a student’s transcripts for outstanding student bills…” (with proposed penalties, see p. 6 of the Executive Budget Summary);

Remaining and Possible Future Budgetary Concerns 

SUNY hospitals (esp. U. Buffalo, U. Stony Brook, Downstate Medical and Upstate Medical) were not included in much of the budgetary requests, continue to have significant limitations in terms of access to NYS funds, and perennial concerns remain.

The hospitals are not allocated the same degree of direct state tax support as the other SUNY campuses do, leaving SUNY to absorb costs not covered.

debt service (building/service/projects) is not typically covered by the state, which covers similar expenses in academic buildings – because of  the “mistaken belief that hospitals are not “academic”;

“Disproportionate share” (dsh) costs – the difference between what patients can pay (including insurance coverage) and what their medical treatment actually costs – continue to increase (currently at $70M and growing).  Note also that since SUNY hospitals are public, they tend to get a larger proportion of lower-income or less well-off patients, including more patients without adequate insurance coverage.

UUP President Kowal continues to fight the battle for our hospitals! 

Our campuses have aging infrastructure & sustainability issues.  Many of the SUNY buildings were built decades ago (in the 70s, if not earlier), and are long past their “useful life”. Buildings need to be refurbished, upgraded, and possibly even replace with new structures. SUNY also wants to reduce campus operating costs (such as utility costs), and is open to proposed remedies that will reduce our costs yet keep the campuses operating in a sustainable and environmentally protective manner.  Goals here are to bring utility costs down to $0, while also providing safe and healthy campuses (clean air, including in our buildings; clean water, etc.)

Current SUNY economic stressors – enrollment, infrastructure and sustainability issues – are more likely to be long-term issues that will need to be addressed for some time.  So, we need to carefully manage our resources carefully.





Enrollment

Total enrollment was down in Fall 2021 compared to Fall 2020 (See two slides below).

Increasing enrollment is of the highest priority for SUNY.  BoT Chair Tisch indicated that SUNY and Gov. Hochul “will have a collaborative relationship”, and that this is one of the areas the Gov. is willing to provide resources for, including $10M this year in digital advertising”.  She noted this was a drop in the bucket compared to what private schools invest in their advertising (e.g. NYU will spend $25M and SNHU will spend $150M this year on their digital advertising.)  Chair Tisch seemed optimistic regarding collaboration with the Governor, and anticipates positive results.  As she stated, “we are looking to attract everyone in the universe...”

“Front-end” strategies to increase enrollment include: advertising and marketing campaigns targeted to specific “marketing audiences”, such as traditional-age students, adult learners, or those interested in specific areas of study (such as nursing), advertising campaigns for opportunities and programs across SUNY (from micro-credentials and workforce development programs to degree and certificate-earning programs.

“Back-end” strategies and tactics, which are intended to make it easier for potential students to apply to SUNY and for financial aid will also be used.



































Gen Ed

Just a reminder, that the Board of Trustees approved SUNY’s new general education requirements in November 2021.  (See slide below).

The Diversity: Equity, Inclusion and Social Justice area has generated the most reactions, and some campuses need more resources and training to the available faculty in order to adequately address that domain with their students and coursework.  

Trainings and resource materials will be made available to faculty. Also,  SUNY’s Center for Professional Development has a Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Teaching and Learning Certificate Program faculty may participate in (which includes one core course, 2 electives).





Brightspace (D2L) – Desire to Learn Platform Update



Implementation for Each Cohort  (11‐13 months per cohort)

Cohort Options





                            2022

                             2023

Jan. ‐ Apr.

May ‐ Aug.

Sep. ‐ Dec.

Jan. ‐ Apr.

May ‐ Aug.

Sep. ‐ Dec.

Phase 1

Phase 2

Phase 3









Phase 1

Phase 2

Phase 3









Phase 1

Phase 2

Phase 3









Phase 1

Phase 1: Planning and IT/Academic Prep (Includes Initial Training)

Phase 2: Pilot ‐ Early Adopter Faculty (Includes continued Training and aligned with the start of a semester)  Phase 3: Production Cutover "Go Live" ‐ All Courses/Faculty (Aligned with the start of a semester)

Phase 2

Phase 3



Cohort 1

Cohort 2

Cohort 3

Cohort 4

























	

	TO:	SUNY University Faculty Senate

	FROM:	Equity, Inclusion, and Diversity Committee and Operations Committee RE:	Resolution: Advancement of Historically Underrepresented Faculty DATE:	190th Plenary, January 20-22, 2022

	LOCATION:	Online via Zoom

	RESOLUTION #:	190-01-1

	VOTE TALLY:	For: 43 / Against: 2 / Abstain: 1

RATIONALE:



WHEREAS the 2021 SUNY Diversity Action plan aims to “Create a More Inclusive Culture at SUNY”, and to “Embed Racial Equity into Curriculum and Toward Racial Equity”, and recognizes that to contend with “the underrepresentation of [BIPOC faculty] will require aggressive recruitment and retention strategies”1; and

WHEREAS SUNY’s diversity, equity, and inclusion must be supported and enhanced to attain Governor Hochul’s goal of making SUNY “the nation’s top public university system” (170) and “the world’s leader in innovation, equitable economic growth, and upward mobility” (181)2; and WHEREAS Governor Hochul recognizes this fact when she sets out to “invest in the SUNY DEI

[Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion] Phase I Action Plan” (193), “recruit and retain top faculty and staff” at SUNY, “significantly diversify the SUNY workforce,” and increase “the number of full-time faculty of color” at SUNY through “competitive salaries and benefits and significant investments in professional development, technology, infrastructure, fellowships, and learning labs” (185), as well as improve “faculty compensation and faculty diversity” at university centers (188); and

WHEREAS Governor Hochul recognizes that it will take a diverse and equitably supported faculty and staff to plan and implement her proposals to support apprenticeships in high-growth industries, targeting underrepresented groups such as women and people of color (65); create an Empire State Teacher Residency Program that “will prioritize diversity among teacher residents and partnering mentors” (173); fund new cohorts of the Master Teacher Program (173); “connect SUNY and CUNY student volunteers with local nonprofit partners to fill critical community needs identified by local stakeholders” (176); increase the number of paid internships available to SUNY students (180); and help five additional SUNY campuses become federally designated as Minority-Serving Institutions (192); and

WHEREAS the expectations placed on historically underrepresented faculty (HUF) are higher than the norm. For example, as faculty of color continue to comprise a small proportion of overall faculty, they are disproportionately asked to serve on committees and task forces or otherwise to represent the institution. They are also in high demand for advising and other support, for students as well as faculty and staff, for example in assisting with campus DEI professional development.3 The disproportionate service demands increase stress and leave HUF members less time and energy for the kinds of work that in many institutions matter most for tenure and promotion—scholarship and





1 BIPOC=Black, Indigenous,People of Color. SUNY Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Phase One Action Plan (2021). https://www.suny.edu/media/suny/content-assets/documents/diversity/suny-dei-final-action- plan.pdf.

2 Governor Kathy Hochul. (2022). State of the State Book.

https://www.governor.ny.gov/sites/default/files/2022-01/2022StateoftheStateBook.pdf

3 Eagan Jr., M. K., & Garvey, J. C. (2015). Stressing Out: Connecting Race, Gender, and Stress with Faculty Productivity. Journal of Higher Education, 86(6), 923–954.

https://doi-org.ezproxy.cobleskill.edu/10.1080/00221546.2015.11777389.

teaching. Such demands are likely to further increase, as more SUNY campuses have Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion as part of their strategic goals; and

WHEREAS HUF do a lot of invisible labor, advising and mentoring historically underrepresented students who often feel more comfortable talking to them than their actual advisors4; however, HUF themselves often have limited opportunities for meaningful and effective mentorship from senior faculty who understand the struggles specific to historically underrepresented groups at predominantly white institutions5; and

WHEREAS the extensive workload of historically underrepresented faculty is not widely recognized and considered in reappointment, continuing appointment, and promotion6; and

WHEREAS HUF are often constrained in their choice of scholarly pursuits and may not receive a fair    evaluation of their scholarship.7

WHEREAS the advancement of HUF is of great value to campuses: HUF a) provide role models to historically underrepresented students and help them succeed; b) contribute diverse perspectives to research and teaching and help create inclusive campus climates; c) impact curricular offerings and course content8; d) help build pathways of access and opportunity to historically underrepresented students; and e) are often particularly willing to try new pedagogical approaches9;



RESOLUTION:



THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the SUNY University Faculty Senate recommends that Campus Governance Leaders, with Campus Governance Bodies, work with their respective administrations to

		develop programs and policies that address challenges to effective mentoring and that offer HUF opportunities equitable to those of their colleagues;

		review and, if necessary, revise to incorporate DEI principles into policies for reappointment, continuing appointment, and promotion;

		direct the bodies that evaluate faculty for reappointment, continuing appointment, and promotion to consider the work that HUF do outside of their academic obligations;

		raise awareness of the disadvantages that HUF experience;

		review and, if necessary, take measures to balance the workload of HUF; and



BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the SUNY University Faculty Senate applauds Governor Hochul’s vision for and prioritization of strengthening SUNY’s diversity, equity, and inclusion in her State of the State book and requests that her Executive Budget includes funds specifically allocated to recruit, retain, and mentor BIPOC faculty in SUNY that are sufficient to significantly and rapidly close the gap between the proportion of SUNY BIPOC students relative to the entire SUNY student body and the proportion of SUNY BIPOC faculty relative to the overall SUNY faculty.





4 Social Sciences Feminist Network Research Interest Group. (2017). The Burden of Invisible Work in Academia: Social Inequalities and Time Use in Five University Departments. Humboldt Journal of Social Relations, 39, 228–245. http://www.jstor.org/stable/90007882.

5 Zambrana, R. E., Ray, R., Espino, M. M., Castro, C., Douthirt Cohen, B., & Eliason, J. (2015). “Don’t Leave Us Behind”: The Importance of Mentoring for Underrepresented Minority Faculty. American Educational Research Journal, 52(1), 40-72. https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831214563063.

6 O’Meara et. al. (2021) Equity-Minded Faculty Workloads. American Council on Education. https://www.acenet.edu/Documents/Equity-Minded-Faculty-Workloads.pdf.

7 Ellison, Julie and Timothy K. Eatman. (2008) Scholarship in Public: Knowledge Creation and Tenure Policy in the Engaged University. Imaginingamerica.org. https://imaginingamerica.org/wp- content/uploads/TTI_FINAL.pdf

8 Centeno, Jaqueline (2021) Why We Need More Faculty of Color In Higher Education. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/civicnation/2021/05/12/why-we-need-more-faculty-of-color-in-higher- education/?sh=5470215764f2.

9 Trejo J. (2017). A Reflection on Faculty Diversity in the 21st Century. Molecular Biology of the Cell, 28(22), 2911-2914. https://doi.org/10.1091/mbc.E17-08-05





	TO:	SUNY University Faculty Senate

	FROM:	Equity, Inclusion, and Diversity Committee

	RE:	Resolution: Successful Implementation of the SUNY General Education Category “Diversity: Equity, Inclusion, and Social Justice”

	DATE:	190th Plenary, January 20-22, 2022

	LOCATION:	Online via Zoom

	RESOLUTION #:	190-02-1

	VOTE TALLY:	For: 41 / Against: 1 / Abstain: 3

RATIONALE:



WHEREAS the SUNY Board of Trustees in their September 10, 2015 Resolution, “Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy,” desire to make “SUNY the most inclusive higher education system in the country,” and state within the Guiding Principles that “SUNY’s statutory mission makes clear its responsibility to provide the broadest possible access, fully representative of all segments of the population of New York State”1; and

WHEREAS the 2021 SUNY Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan aims to “Create a More Inclusive Culture at SUNY” and to “Embed Racial Equity into Curriculum and Toward Racial Equity”2; and

WHEREAS SUNY’s diversity, equity, and inclusion must be supported and enhanced to attain Governor Hochul’s goal of making SUNY “the nation’s top public university system” (170) and “the world’s leader in innovation, equitable economic growth, and upward mobility” (181)3; and WHEREAS Governor Hochul recognizes this fact when she sets out to “invest in the SUNY DEI Phase I Action Plan” (193), “recruit and retain top faculty and staff” at SUNY, “significantly diversify the SUNY workforce,” and increase “the number of full-time faculty of color” at SUNY through “competitive salaries and benefits and significant investments in professional development, technology, infrastructure, fellowships, and learning labs” (185), as well as improve “faculty compensation and faculty diversity” at university centers (188); and

WHEREAS Governor Hochul’s Executive Budget provides $53 million to SUNY "to hire additional full- time faculty at both four-year colleges and community colleges" (104) and takes action to ensure a "more diverse and inclusive state workforce" (89); and

WHEREAS the new SUNY General Education Framework approved by the SUNY Board of Trustees, effective Fall 2023 (Fall 2024 for AOS and AAS programs), includes the category of “Diversity: Equity, Inclusion, and Social Justice,” which all students in both two-year and four-year programs are required to take4; and



WHEREAS many campuses in the SUNY system do not have enough faculty with expertise in teaching about issues pertinent to the learning outcomes of the category “Diversity: Equity, Inclusion,





1 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Policy. (2015, September 10). https://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=804.

2 SUNY Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Phase One Action Plan https://www.suny.edu/media/suny/content- assets/documents/diversity/suny-dei-final-action-plan.pdf

3 Governor Kathy Hochul. (2022). State of the State Book https://www.governor.ny.gov/sites/default/files/2022- 01/2022StateoftheStateBook.pdf.

4 SUNY Board of Trustees Resolution 2021-48, November 9, 2021. https://system.suny.edu/academic- affairs/acaproplan/general-education/suny-ge/

and Social Justice” and many campuses currently do not have sufficient funding to hire faculty with such expertise5; and

WHEREAS interested faculty may feel insecure or uncomfortable to teach courses in the subject areas of Equity, Inclusion, and Social Justice; and

WHEREAS the teaching and/or research load of faculty across campuses generally does not allow for the kind of extensive professional development to gain the knowledge and/or comfort required to successfully teach courses in the required General Education Diversity category6;







RESOLUTION:



THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the SUNY University Faculty Senate requests that the Governor and the Interim Chancellor work together to rapidly create a pool of funding and appropriate resources for hiring full-time and/or tenure-track faculty with expertise in teaching courses that fulfill the learning outcomes of the new SUNY General Education Framework category of Diversity: Equity, Inclusion, and Social Justice on campuses that currently have little teaching expertise in this area; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the SUNY University Faculty Senate requests that the Interim Chancellor create funding and resources to cover faculty course releases so they can complete the “Critically Reflecting on Diversity and Teaching in SUNY” and “Teaching for Racial Equity” courses of the SUNY CPD Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Teaching and Learning Certificate, and/or similar coursework that fosters faculty expertise in this area; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the SUNY University Faculty Senate requests that the Interim Chancellor fully fund the SUNY CPD Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Teaching and Learning Certificate to ensure a sufficient number of cost-free seats for interested faculty.



















5 The need for substantial training of faculty interested in teaching courses in the Diversity category is evident from the Implementation Guidance for the new SUNY General Education, as the guidance for this category reads: “SUNY System Administration will work with campuses to ensure that faculty have the training and resources to support the teaching and learning needs in this category.” Memorandum from Dr. Shahedipour-Sandvik, Provost-in-Charge, to SUNY Presidents, December 21, 2021.

6 Marcus, John (2021) “Some universities’ response to budget woes: Making faculty teach more courses.” The Hechinger Report. https://hechingerreport.org/some-universities-response-to-budget- woes-making-faculty-teach-more-courses/





Faculty Council of Community Colleges

SUNY Chancellor and Executive Leadership Team Searches G2.2021-2022

Passed by the FCCC October 16, 2021



WHEREAS the State University of New York (SUNY), like other public higher education systems across the nation, is committed to fulfilling its core academic mission, to transform students’ lives, and serve the state as a foundation for democracy, platform for civic engagement, engine of economic development, magnet for population growth and private investment, and generator of health, creativity, and innovation; and

WHEREAS the SUNY Faculty Council of Community Colleges (FCCC) advocates for following transparent and established search processes for campus and SUNY System Administration leaders; and

WHEREAS SUNY has a national reputation as a leader in the practice of shared governance, as evidenced by providing funding for its governance bodies to sponsor conferences, produce scholarly publications, and hold leadership trainings on shared governance; and

WHEREAS the SUNY Board of Trustees approved the Resolution on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in September of 2015 in order to grow the diversity of SUNY’s system and campus leadership, as well as its faculty and staff; and

WHEREAS the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) promotes that open, transparent, and inclusive search processes in higher education represent a best practice in shared governance, as shown by its 1966 Statement on Government of Colleges and Universities and its 2015 Statement on Presidential Searches; and

WHEREAS the AAUP’s 2015 Statement, making reference to presidential searches, acknowledges that while a governing board may have the legal responsibility to select an institutional leader, the process of selection is fundamental in determining which candidate has the most appropriate administrative skills needed to lead; and

WHEREAS SUNY has prescribed guidelines for search processes for campus presidents; and

WHEREAS SUNY does not have a set of prescribed guidelines for chancellor or executive leadership team searches; and

WHEREAS a prescribed SUNY search process to fill a campus presidential vacancies, which follow a formal, transparent and established search process, produces a diverse slate of the best qualified candidates as finalists for the position being filled; and

WHEREAS the SUNY Board of Trustees has the authority to hire the SUNY chancellor and to set system-wide policies;

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the SUNY Board of Trustees create a manual and official guidelines for all chancellor and executive leadership team searches, modeled after the Guidelines for Presidential Searches for Community Colleges, including Procedures Manual and the Guidelines for Conducting Presidential Searches, for state operated campuses; and

RESOLVED that the FCCC respectfully requests that the manual and guidelines include that all current and future SUNY Chancellor and executive leadership team vacancies be filled through a nationwide search and include a diverse pool of candidates; and

RESOLVED that the manual and guidelines include procedures that the membership of any such search committee include one or more representatives from each of the established shared governance bodies (FCCC, UFS, and SA); and

RESOLVED that the manual and guidelines include procedures that require these representatives shall be selected by the executive leadership teams of these bodies; and

RESOLVED that the manual and guidelines include that the number of FCCC representatives on search committees should be in proportion to the SUNY leaders’ involvement with SUNY community colleges; and

RESOLVED that the SUNY Board of Trustees take steps to codify these processes in State Education Law.









	



 PAGE 3



 PAGE 6