2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education

A DYING TOWN

Here in a corner of Missouri and across America, the lack of a college education has become a public-health crisis.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

1/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education

D

rive 90 miles north on Interstate 55 from Memphis, then 20 miles west on By Sarah Brown and Karin Fischer
Route 412, cutting through seemingly endless ﬁelds of cotton, rice,

Photos by Andrea Morales for The Chronicle

and soybeans. You’ll know you’ve arrived when you see the sign:

Welcome to Kennett. Hometown of Sheryl Crow.

December 29, 2017
KENNETT, MO.

This small town in southeastern Missouri used to greet visitors with a
different motto: "Service. Industry. Agriculture." But the machine-partsmaker closed and the trailer manufacturer left and the aluminum smelter
went under. There’s not nearly as much industry around here as there used
to be. Sheryl Crow’s Grammys aren’t going anywhere.
Route 412 becomes First Street, and downtown opens up with a
McDonald’s to your left and a Burger King to your right. There are just two
grocery stores in town, but fast-food restaurants are everywhere. It’s easier
to ﬁnd a pharmacy than a salad bar.
Outside the row of medical ofﬁces that border the hospital, people pause
for one last smoke. Mr. Chan’s still sells doughnuts and kolaches, and Riggs
Supply is, somehow, holding on, but there are many boarded-up
storefronts along First Street these days. Down the road, a branch of the
local college offers programs in education, criminal justice, and
agribusiness. College-going isn’t so common, though. In this area, just one
adult in 10 has a four-year degree.
Recently the town tried to revitalize the area around the old county
courthouse. It added new streetlights and redid the sidewalks. But few
people use them.
This is the Missouri Bootheel. The counties around here are called that
because if you squint at a map, it kind of looks like the heel of a boot, jutting
south from the rest of the state into Arkansas and Tennessee. The name
comes from its shape, but it’s something of a metaphor, too. It can
sometimes seem like life is trying to grind people down.
It’s a place, one of many in America, where disadvantages pile up.
Researchers are uncovering links between education — or lack of it — and
health, and they don’t like what they see. It’s not clear whether a college
degree leads directly to better health, or, if so, how. But the ﬁndings are
alarming: Educational disparities and economic malaise and lack of
opportunity are making people like those in the Bootheel sick. And maybe
even killing them.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

2/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education

Jim Anderson and his partner, Annie Walters, deal with chronic illnesses.

D

octors’ visits and health checkups set the cadence of Annie Walters’s
and Jim Anderson’s days.

If it’s Monday, it’s time for the visiting nurse, who checks Annie’s blood
pressure and arranges a medicine tray with the many pills she’ll need for
the week ahead. Twice a week they drive from Cooter, population 469, up
the road to Kennett so she can have her legs unbandaged and bandaged
again and medicated wraps applied to soothe the ulcers that blister her
calves.
Routinely they see Dr. Abdullah Arshad, who treats Annie for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, the progressive lung ailment that
robs her of breath and tethers her to an oxygen tank. They’re grateful that
trips across state lines are less frequent these days, to see the specialists
who monitor her kidneys and her lungs. Then there are sessions with
physical therapists, who put Annie through exercises to build up leg
muscles atrophied by periods when she’s been on bed rest or had to use a
wheelchair to get around.
Their days have been like this going on eight years, ever since Annie
developed a blood clot in her lungs and Jim quit his job to care for her full
time. The pair aren’t married — Annie, who has been married six times,
wouldn’t say yes — but Jim is devoted. He cooks all the meals, worrying that
she could fall while balancing on her walker at the stove. He makes sure she
gets exercise. In case the power goes out, he has stockpiled extra oxygen
tanks, four large, six small.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

3/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
Jim is Annie’s primary caregiver, but he’s had assistance since his own
health scare. Bypass surgery ﬁve years ago — not long after his 58th
birthday — has left him with ﬁve stents in his chest and a scar now just
barely visible above his neckline.
With all of the appointments and checkups, some weeks the pair count
themselves lucky to have one day free, when Jim can putter around the yard
and Annie can catch up with her soaps.

Jim keeps track of oxygen levels for Annie, who is being treated for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

But Jim and Annie aren’t unusual in having their days dominated by
medical concerns. Here in the heart of the Bootheel, in Pemiscot County,
where they live, and in neighboring Dunklin, where Kennett is the county
seat, a quarter of all adults report being in poor or only fair health. Five days
each month, per capita, are lost to poor physical health, and another ﬁve to
poor mental health.
If that seems high, it’s because it is. Places like the Bootheel tend to be
sicker than more-afﬂuent and better-educated parts of the country. Even
more troubling, recent research shows that the health gulf is widening. In
the past two decades mortality rates for middle-aged white Americans
without a college degree — a group that includes most residents of the
Bootheel — have soared, reversing a century of improving longevity.
The authors of that research, a pair of Princeton University economists, call
these "deaths of despair." People with a high-school education or less, they
argue, have weaker job prospects, and, faced with declining economic and
social well-being, turn to drugs and alcohol. Despair, in the guise of
overdoses, cirrhosis, even suicide, claim the still-young.
It would be easy to say this is just about being poor, but people who study
the phenomenon say it’s not that simple. Yes, having a job — and the
paycheck and health insurance that come with it — matters. Those aren’t
all that make a difference, however. Better-educated people live in less-

Read More
Why Education Matters to Your
Health

polluted areas, trust more in science, and don’t as frequently engage in
risky behaviors. Have a college degree and you’re more likely to wear a seat
belt and change the batteries in your smoke alarm.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

4/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
Deaths of despair
Deaths by drugs, alcohol, or suicide among white non-Hispanics between the ages of 50 and 54

200 deaths per 100,000

Men, high school or less
160

120
Women, high school or less
80
Men, bachelor's degree or more
40

Women, bachelor's degree or more
0
1999

2001

2003

2005

2007

2009

2011

2013

2015

Source: “Mortality and Morbidity in the 21st century” by Anne Case and Angus Deaton, Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, 2017

While "deaths of despair" grab the headlines, what often hurts people is
more run-of-the-mill. Chronic illnesses like cancer and diabetes and heart
disease cut short the lives of many and erode the quality of the days they do
have. People with less education are twice as likely, for instance, to die of
lung cancer or COPD, the disease with which Annie struggles. Heart attacks
and strokes are far more common for those without much schooling — one
study found that heart-attack rates for middle-aged adults who hadn’t
ﬁnished high school were double those with a college degree.
College wasn’t in the cards for Annie. Now 66,
she had a baby at 14 and dropped out of
school. Jim did have a chance to go to college.
Though his parents didn’t have the money, a
farmer he worked for offered to pay for him to
get a two-year degree. But Jim was sick of
school, couldn’t imagine being in the
classroom any longer. The offer, the farmer
told him, was open-ended, but somehow, Jim
says, he just never got around to it.
He doesn’t have regrets. He made enough to
buy his own home, a truck, and a van. "If you
make more money," he says, "you just end up spending more."
Instead he cycled through a series of jobs. He has been, in no particular
order, an auto mechanic, a carpenter, an electrician, and a plumber. He has
driven a truck and driven a tractor, been on the cleanup crew at a chickenprocessing plant, and held down shifts in a grocery store and a service
station.
Jim had his ﬁrst cigarette at age 7 and smoked regularly for the next 50
years, until his heart attack. He had stopped drinking years earlier, but now
he quit smoking cold turkey and cut out most caffeine. Tougher, though,
has been changing how he eats, even though he knows both he and Annie
need a better diet. He’s stopped with the fried foods and orders carefully at
restaurants, but his kryptonite is ham, particularly around the holidays.
"It’s not a holiday without a little bit of ham," Jim says. "That’s what I live
for anymore, the eating."

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

5/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
His doctor fusses at him if his weight creeps
back up or his cholesterol rises, so he tries to
stick to the straight and narrow. But he admits
to some skepticism about always watching
what he eats. His father, too, had a heart attack
and was put on a restrictive "cardiac diet." It
lasted just a few days before he woke up and
ﬁxed himself eggs, sausage, and biscuits. "It
might kill me now, it might kill me in a year,"
he told Jim, "but I’m not about to starve to
death." He lived another 22 years.
Jim once imagined buying a little camper in
retirement and traveling around the country, but his and Annie’s health
won’t allow it. So he ﬁnds himself just three miles from where he was born.
A few months ago, he got the idea to clean out the closets, but he kept
ﬁnding knickknacks and mementos from years past and people who are
gone. Spring cleaning has turned to fall to winter, and he hasn’t thrown
much away.
When the surgeon operated on Jim’s heart, he couldn’t repair all the
damage that was done and warned Jim that one day he could have another
heart attack. It doesn’t worry him much.

A quarter of all adults in the region report being in poor or only fair health.

J

im and Annie’s primary physician, Dr. Arshad, came to the Bootheel 15
years ago. The region doesn’t produce many of its own doctors — few

students aspire to medicine, and those who do must leave the area to earn a
degree. Not many return.
So the Bootheel imports its physicians, Dr. Arshad included. A federal
program offers medical-school graduates a deal: Work for two years in
certain rural and underserved areas and get much of your debt forgiven.
For Dr. Arshad, two years became three, and then it was six, 10, 15. A few
years back, Pemiscot Memorial Hospital, where he is medical director,
nearly went under, burdened by bad debt. As the county hospital, Pemiscot
Memorial must treat everyone who walks through its doors. Each year it
provides at least $7 million in care to people who can’t pay the bill. With the
hospital on the brink, many doctors closed their practices and left the area.
Dr. Arshad stayed.
Occasionally he thinks about leaving, but never for long. He’s part of the
community here. People stop him in the grocery checkout line to tell him
about their sore throats or the pain in their chest that’s been nagging them.
They pull pill bottles out of their bags, medication that some specialist at
one of the big hospitals in Cape Girardeau or Jonesboro has prescribed for
them, and ask his advice: Is this really what I should be taking? What about

the side effects listed here? They think of him as their physician.
When it comes down to it, he can’t leave.
That’s his word, can’t. There is too much at

Dr. Abdullah Arshad is medical director at Pemiscot Memorial Hospital.

stake here, the need too great. It’s tough and
getting tougher to be poor and sick in the Bootheel.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

6/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
With layoffs, many people have lost their health insurance. At Dr. Arshad’s
clinic, if patients don’t have insurance, they are charged on a sliding scale
based on income. But many can’t come up with even that much, so the
clinic has them ﬁll out a form saying they’ll pay later. Dr. Arshad holds his
hands about 18 inches apart. That’s what his current stack of unpaid bills
looks like.
"Of course," he says, "there never is a later."
Other patients no longer qualify for Medicaid because of state policy
changes. In recent years, Missouri has tightened its eligibility requirements.
It’s one of a handful of states not to participate in the Medicaid expansion
under the Affordable Care Act.
The weakening of the social safety net has consequences. The gap in life
expectancy between the state where people live longest and the one where
they die earliest is more than seven years, and researchers attribute much
of that to the difference in state policies for the poorest residents.
Dr. Arshad knows that many of his patients face difﬁcult
choices when it comes to health care. They might get surgery but then skip
crucial follow-up visits or miss appointments because they can’t get a ride.
In the summer, ofﬁce visits rise because in warmer weather people will
walk, sometimes ﬁve miles or more, to see him.
For patients who pay out-of-pocket, he prescribes the cheapest
medications. Still, he knows that for many, it is still too much, and that
prescriptions will go unﬁlled. He’s had patients lose legs because they
couldn’t ﬁnd the money for needed drugs.
A lot of the health problems Dr. Arshad confronts are preventable. The map
might say Missouri, but the Bootheel is more Mississippi Delta north,
especially when it comes to food. He’ll give patients a sheet about eating
healthier, for instance, and explain to them simple steps they can take to
change their habits.
"But I have to be realistic," he says. "I can talk about healthy diets until I’m
blue in the face, but it’s not going to happen."
Experts differ as to why, but people with more education are more likely to
pay attention to scientiﬁc reports about health and wellness and to heed
their advice. One home-health aide in Dunklin County says she repeatedly
lectures those in her care about the importance of a healthy diet or the
dangers of smoking only to ﬁnd a McDonald’s bag in the trash or a patient
on oxygen surreptitiously lighting up.
It’s also a numbers game: A McDonald’s double cheeseburger is half the
price of a packaged salad at Walmart. Those habits are compounded by a
highly sedentary culture. In Dunklin and Pemiscot counties, nearly onethird of people say they get no exercise in their free time.
But if unhealthy behaviors are far more common among lesseducated Americans, it wasn’t always so. The wealthy and educated were
once more likely than poor people to develop smoking-related illnesses or
colon cancer from eating rich foods, for the simple reason that only they
could afford what were considered luxuries.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

7/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
The popularity of smoking waned among the better educated after the
government started warning Americans about the dangers of tobacco.
Between the mid-1960s and the 1990s, smoking rates for college-educated
women tumbled 16 percentage points, while the rates for those without a
degree fell by less than half that, 7.5 points. Around here, it can feel as if
most everyone smokes.
Some of the Bootheel’s problems seem like a step back in time. Many
mothers don’t get needed prenatal care. Premature-birth rates are high and
birth weights low. In Pemiscot County, 11 of every 1,000 babies die before
their ﬁrst birthday, far above state or national averages. In Dunklin, the rate
is only marginally better, 10 out of 1,000.
Not long ago a young boy came into the emergency room at Pemiscot
Memorial with a severe asthma attack. His mother didn’t know how to use
the inhaler properly. She hesitated before seeking help, and she drove him
to the hospital herself rather than pay for an ambulance. The boy died.
"To have a kid die of asthma," Dr. Arshad says, "who’d have thought that
could happen in 2017?"

Jake McKuin farms and helps run his family’s welding shop in Kennett.

J

ake McKuin does his own stitches. He’s had a tooth pulled while lying
in the bed of a pickup truck. A couple of years ago, he had heat stroke

in the middle of a bean ﬁeld. He went home, drank some Gatorade, called a
nurse friend who set him up with an IV, and, after a couple of hours, went
back to work.
His blood pressure is dangerously high at times — during a rare doctor’s
visit a few years back, the top number was 180-something, he ﬁgures. But
he shrugs it off. As a farmer, he has to make most of his annual income
during a 70-day harvest, from September to November. Of course it’ll go up
when life gets stressful. It’ll come back down; it’s no big deal.
Going without health insurance is a risky
gamble for someone like Jake. Deep cuts and
minor burns are commonplace in his line of work. He operates heavy
equipment that can chop off a ﬁnger or a whole arm if he’s not careful.
But he’s a self-employed contractor who doesn’t receive beneﬁts through
his job. A plan under the Affordable Care Act would have cost him $806 a
month, with a $15,000 deductible. The tax penalty for not having health
insurance is far less. Many of the farmers and truckers he works with have
also decided to go without. The Bootheel’s soil is as rich as ever, but crop
prices are stagnant, and health-insurance premiums are increasing.
Lacking insurance can be devastating. Jake has learned that the hard way. A
dozen years ago, he picked up a loaded gun by the barrel and it went off,
putting a bullet through his right hand. He had to be ﬂown by helicopter to
a hospital in Memphis and treated there for a week. The bill, after a series of
reconstructive surgeries: $287,000. (He says his family ended up paying
about $35,000.) His hand doesn’t do much anymore.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

8/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
Winding through the cotton and bean ﬁelds just outside of downtown
Kennett, Jake drives back to his family’s welding shop one recent evening,
to close up for the night. In late fall, the harvest done, cotton has been
gathered into pillowy bales. A few errant wisps cling to the side of the road.
Near the shop, his pickup truck hits a large bump, jolting him. He grimaces,
then laughs. "I’m getting too old for this." He’s 31.
It didn’t have to be this way. He got a bachelor’s degree from Crowley’s
Ridge College, a Christian institution 40 miles away in Arkansas, becoming
the ﬁrst man in his family to get a higher education. He could have
continued to law school, as he considered doing, and gone on to spend far
fewer days worrying about stray sparks from power tools setting his jeans
on ﬁre.
For some of his high-school classmates, college was their one-way ticket
out of the Bootheel. It was for his younger sister, who now lives in Arkansas.
The kids who didn’t go to college, or who didn’t ﬁnish, are the ones who
stuck around.

In Context: Education and Income

But his dad’s welding shop — a blue building just off a dirt road on the
north side of town — is a successful business, and Jake is next in line to take
over. Law school would have been expensive, anyway, and he didn’t really
want to spend the next 30 years of his life indoors.
He’s been working on a farm since he was 8, when he was old enough to
drive a tractor. In his teens, he started smoking. He’s smoked for the past 15
years, sometimes a pack a day, sometimes less. When he’s not on his
combine in the ﬁeld or working on a tractor-trailer in the shop, he’s often
holding a cigarette and sipping a can of cold Pepsi. After 5 p.m., it’s a
Michelob Ultra.
For this line of work, Jake didn’t need to go to college. Most of the guys he
works with didn’t. Still, if things go bad, he’s got an education to fall back
on. Farming is a tough industry, and he’s lost about $45,000 on his own
crops over the past three years.
When people don’t have a plan B, it’s easy to lose hope.
One chilly evening in November, Jake is driving down First Street in
Kennett. Most of the shops are dark. But in one, the lights are still on. It’s
Bootheel Marine, the local boating shop. The owner must still be there, Jake
says. His nephew committed suicide at 4:30 a.m. the day before.
Jake wonders aloud whether the suicide rate is high in the county. It is,
especially among middle-aged white men.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

9/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
Jake isn’t surprised to hear that. A year and a half ago, he got a call from one
of his best friends, Tom Mastrianno, a construction contractor. When Tom
called, it was usually about playing golf.
This time he just wanted to talk. Jake was busy.
He said he’d call right back.
Twenty minutes later, the phone rang again. It was his friend’s ﬁancée. Tom
had hung himself inside one of the houses he was building. He was 44.
Jake knew Tom’s construction company was going bankrupt. He knew Tom
was worried about losing his house, his ﬁancée, and his two daughters. But
he didn’t know how close his friend was to taking his own life. He can’t even
remember exactly what he was doing when Tom called. Working on his
combine? It had seemed so important at the time. Now all he remembers is
that he shouldn’t have hung up the damn phone.
The whys and what-ifs after a suicide are hard questions to answer, but like
any grieving friend, Jake has tried anyway. "Everything you could take from
someone," he says, "he’d lost it."
If farming doesn’t pan out for Jake, there are plenty of other jobs he can do.
Tom never got a college degree. He didn’t have a ton of options.

The town square in Kennett.

S

herry Thomas was poised to regain the thing that matters most to her,
her four children. After more than a year in Dunklin County Family

Treatment Court, known by most around here as "drug court," she was
clean now.
At some graduations, people don caps and gowns. At her own, Sherry
clutched a tiny screwdriver. She used it to afﬁx a nameplate to a plaque
hanging on the courtroom wall, adding her name to the roster of 95 others
who have ﬁnished the program.
With the screws tightened, she threw her hands above her head in
jubilation. "Yes!" she cried. "It’s a blessing, y’all!"
Sherry’s spot in the program won’t go unﬁlled for long. An intensive
mixture of counseling, education, and treatment, it has room for only about
two dozen participants at a time. But two-thirds of the cases of child abuse
and neglect that come before the county’s juvenile court involve drugs.
Some people are referred to family-treatment court by friends or
caseworkers. One woman says her sisters turned her in. Others lose their
children while still in the maternity ward when their newborns test positive
for drugs.
Until recently, the drug most likely to land a parent in treatment court was
methamphetamine. Its ravages are plainly visible in Kennett, in the tightlipped smiles and downcast stammers of those suffering from "meth
mouth," the tooth decay, gaping gums, and cracked molars that are a side
effect of the drug’s use.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

10/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
Now the drugs of choice are opioids. Some, like heroin, are illegal, but
others — fentanyl, hydrocodone, oxycodone — are available with a doctor’s
note. Around town, people point out the pill mills, the physicians who will
prescribe opioids for your "bad back," the pharmacies that can be paid in
cash.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that last year, 163
opioid prescriptions were written for every 100 Dunklin County residents.

In Context: Health Outcomes

Though drug use has been an issue in places like the Bootheel for some
time, to many this is an epidemic, as people, the poorest and least educated
especially, numb themselves to the disappointments of job loss or ill health.
Missouri has done far less than other states to track the doctors who write
prescriptions for powerful painkillers and the pharmacists who ﬁll them. In
the Bootheel, folks wonder why.
Not so long ago, men and women like those who end up in drug court could
aspire to a decent life, with or without a college degree. People in the
Bootheel have never been wealthy, but it used to be easier to get by, to earn
a steady paycheck. The jobs that once went to folks around here, they say,
are now being done by robots or Mexicans or some combination of the two.
If you haven’t got much education, you haven’t got much
hope. That’s how Phillip M. Britt, the court commissioner,

Phillip Britt is commissioner of the Dunklin County Family Treatment Court.

sees it. Drugs are people’s way of coping. "Life," he says.
"Lots of the time that’s why they use in the ﬁrst place. They can’t deal with
life on life’s terms."
That’s the case for Sherry. The drug that cost her her children was meth,
though she says she hadn’t been using for long. When social services took
her kids away, her youngest child was just a month old. Her oldest was 10.
Sherry wasn’t much older than that when she ﬁrst tried drugs, marijuana
and alcohol mostly. In the seventh grade, she quit school and she started
partying. It was her way of handling a chaotic home life and a mother who,
she says, "talked crazy" and hit her.
"I’d lean on drugs to deal with my emotions," Sherry says. "I thought, ‘I’m
not going to feel.’"
Drugs had helped inure her to a painful childhood, but the loss of her own
children brought fresh anguish. When she was ﬁnally permitted a visit, her
toddler daughter, her second-youngest, cried for her "other mother."
Mr. Britt has run treatment court since its inception, nearly 15 years ago.
Some of the people in the program today he ﬁrst met as children when their
parents were in his courtroom.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

11/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
Such a perspective could make a person gloomy, but the commissioner
retains a glass-half-full outlook. "He has more compassion than anyone,"
says one staffer. "Still."
Each Wednesday, Mr. Britt and a dozen caseworkers and counselors crowd
into a cramped conference room just off his courtroom and tick through a
status report on all participants. Each one has a treatment plan, a
personalized set of goals that will get him or her closer to regaining custody.
Complete certain steps, and Mr. Britt might recommend supervised visits.
Notch some more, and he might deem you ready to take your kids to a
movie.
Some of the requirements are common. Everyone shows up for counseling,
both individual sessions and group therapy. Everyone calls in daily to the
"color line"; if your assigned color is randomly selected, you have to take a
drug test.
And if they don’t have a high-school diploma already — many do not — Mr.
Britt encourages participants to work toward earning one. The court will
even help pay for the costs of taking the GED.
Partly that is a pragmatic choice by Mr. Britt, who is also a regent of
Southeast Missouri State University. Jobs are hard to come by in the
Bootheel, and without a diploma, you take yourself out of the running for
all but the most menial. To win back your children, you have to show that
you can support them.
But there’s another reason. "For so many of these folks," he says, "this is the
ﬁrst time they’ve ever completed anything."
Family-treatment court is about getting clean, to be sure, but it’s just as
much about trying to give people the skills and education to get by, for
themselves and for their children. No one’s ever encouraged them, Mr. Britt
says. No one’s ever talked with them about what’s possible. As dramatic as
this may sound, the court could be a bulwark, the buffer, between a life,
even a death, of despair.
The staff meeting concluded, Mr. Britt calls court into session. The smell of
cigarettes hangs in the air, and between cases, participants duck out for a
quick smoke.
One by one, they stand before the bench to detail the past week’s successes
and setbacks. While relapsing is a constant struggle, many of the hurdles
reﬂect mundane challenges. One woman has had her car impounded and
has no way to get to work or to see her children, who are staying with a
relative an hour away.
"I know it can feel like one step ahead and two steps backward," Mr. Britt
says.
She interrupts. "357 steps back, it feels like."
On this Wednesday, it is Sherry who steps forward. She’ll still have to
submit to drug tests and resolve her custody case. But she’s come far from
where she began. She has more conﬁdence in herself, and more hope. She
might try for the management track at Taco Bell, where she works.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

12/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
"I’ve had a chance," she says, after the others toast her with cookies and
sweets. She repeats, more quietly this time, "I count this as a huge
blessing."

Freda Kershaw works as a substance-abuse counselor in the Bootheel.

F

reda Kershaw tries to make sure that people don’t turn to drugs, as
Sherry did. But some of the problems that befell Sherry — dropping

out of high school, raising children alone — could easily have been Freda’s
own. She got pregnant at 14.
Her mother was shocked. She had always been a good kid, did her chores,
kept her grades up. Mom worked nights and weekends, though, and often
wasn’t around. Her father wasn’t in the picture. Freda had started hanging
around with her older cousins and their friends. The wrong crowd, she says.
It’s what she now calls an "unstructured environment."
Freda is from Caruthersville, the largest town in Pemiscot County, where
the teen birth rate is more than double the state average. Many of those
teen moms don’t ﬁnish their education, get too busy with child care to
work, and are forced to go on public assistance. When Freda got pregnant,
in 1979, she could have ended up just like one of them.
Erma Motton, her boyfriend’s mother, had other ideas. Finishing school is

important. So is going to college. I’ll help take care of the baby.
Erma had always made ends meet, but she
Freda Kershaw has photos of her sons and grandchildren at her home in Caruthersville.

wanted more for her ﬁve children and for
Freda: a steady paycheck, a house, a nice car.

She wanted them to go to college. She says she even took some college
courses when her kids were in their teens, so they could be close to
someone who aspired to more than just working and coming home every
day.
So Freda left behind her 3-year-old son, Sean, and went to Southeast
Missouri State, 90 miles away, in Cape Girardeau. Four years later, after
graduation, she came right back. She wasn’t sure what she was going to do,
but her boyfriend and son were there, and her mother’s health was
worsening. The Bootheel was where she needed to be. She got married and
brought Sean home.
Freda worked at the county health department, then as a liaison for a team
of health researchers at Saint Louis University. Later she got a master’s
degree in public health and became a substance-abuse prevention
specialist. She was living the life Erma had wanted for her.
As her career was coming together, her family was falling apart. Her
husband was a great father, but he was struggling with drugs. Sean was
starting to rebel. She wishes she’d taken him to college with her. Back in
Pemiscot County, he had bounced around among several homes, raised by
her mother, her brother and his wife, their older kids, Erma. It was stressful,
and he soon got into trouble.
Sean, now 37, has been in and out of prison for the past 20 years. Recently
he’s been abusing opioids. After his most recent arrest, Freda was actually
grateful. "People would call me, concerned about the last state they’d seen

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

13/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
him in," she says. "He could have lost his life if he’d stayed on the streets."
Her younger son, Abram, started college right after high school, but his
girlfriend was pregnant. Freda told him what Erma had told her: Stay in

college. I’ll help take care of the baby.
Abram wasn’t hearing it. He returned to Caruthersville and got a job at a
steel mill 30 miles away. Now he’s a truck driver and able to provide for his
family. But he’s on the road a lot of the time, away from his wife and kids.
He would have been much better off, Freda says, with a college degree.
Once Sean leaves prison, Freda doesn’t know
what she’s going to do. She wants him to get
proper treatment for his drug problems and land on his feet. But she can’t
invite him to live with her. We aren’t taking care of a grown man, her
second husband told her. It was hard to hear, but she agreed.
She thinks drugs tighten their grip on the community as people lose the
ﬁght in them. It’s almost as if they’re medicating themselves to cope with
the feeling that their life will never get better, she says. They feel that they’re
born into it and they’re going to die in it. Many kids simply can’t picture a
different future. "You see hopelessness in a whole new way," she says.
On top of her counseling job, Freda works part time for a nonproﬁt group
within the University of Missouri at Columbia that helps at-risk youth. She
wants to be sure someone is telling these kids that they can go places, that
they can go to college, that their future is bright. Just like Erma told her.
The Mizzou nonproﬁt helps support a community center in Caruthersville,
where kids can get a hot meal, play basketball, read books. It keeps them
out of homes where family members are struggling with drug addiction and
other domestic problems.
Freda sits back in a plastic chair, in a room off to the side of the center’s
basketball court. She wears a jacket emblazoned with the logo of FCC
Behavioral Health, the agency she works for, along with jeans and sneakers
for running around with the kids.
A few young men are at the center this afternoon, playing basketball. Kevin
Anderson graduated from high school a couple of years ago, the only one of
ﬁve kids in his family to do so. He tried to sign up for classes at the local
community college, but "everything didn’t go through," he says. Now he
just wants to get a job, though he’s not sure where. He hasn’t tried college
again.
"They got ﬁnancial aid or whatever, but nobody gets that," he says. "It’s
limited to certain people."
"They do have grants, you guys," Freda interjects. "Which is money you
don’t have to pay back that will cover some of those costs."
"You have to qualify for it, though," Kevin says.
Yes, Freda says, but all you have to do is ﬁll out a form. "It’s online," she
says.
"I heard you gotta pay for that!" Kevin says, exasperated.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

14/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education
When young people from the Bootheel do go to college, they tend not to
come back. They leave behind this community, its people, and its
problems. Who can blame them? many locals will tell you. There are no

jobs. There’s nothing to do around here.
We often talk about the economic payoff of a college education, about the
job it will get you, the money you’ll make. Maybe, though, we need to think
differently about the stakes, to view our educational divides in publichealth terms.
Education matters, now more than ever. Get it, and chances are you will
have a happier and longer, a wealthier and healthier life. Does going to
college lead directly to better health? That’s a question for another day.
What is clear is that the college degree is a marker, a dividing line for health
outcomes. As the beneﬁts of having a degree accrue, so do the costs of not
having one. You can see the toll here in the Bootheel, in all the Bootheels
across America. In lives cut short by disadvantages that multiply.

F

reda sees those disadvantages every day: in the people who pass
through the counseling agency, in the kids she works with at the

community center, in her own children. It will take a long time and
painstaking effort to close those gaps.
Still, Freda says, so often all it takes is a gentle nudge to help people ﬁnd a
better path: Go this way, not that way. "That’s what I do for anybody,
because of that seed that was sowed in me."
For some people, that path includes a college degree, she says, but there are
other ways to continue an education. A community garden in Caruthersville
used to give men who had recently gotten out of prison a chance to learn
soft skills. They worked the land for $10 an hour.
Freda once could look outside her front door and see the tomatoes,
spinach, and cabbage growing in the grassy lot across the street. Peppers,
squash, okra, and collard greens, too. You could take what you wanted, at
no cost.
The garden was a vibrant part of the community, Freda says. Many people
who needed to change their diet because of heart trouble or diabetes
suddenly had fresh produce at their ﬁngertips. Some folks were inspired to
start growing their own. It was in the middle of a residential neighborhood,
easy to walk to.
"It just gave people hope," she says.
But in 2013, the funding ran out, and the garden shut down. Others have
sprung up, but they, too, rely on grants. The money comes and goes.
Look outside Freda’s front door now, and you’d never know there used to
be a garden there. The middle of the lot, where the vegetables grew, is a
shade darker than the rest; that’s the only reminder. A few beer cans and
fast-food wrappers are scattered across the grass. Every now and then,
Freda’s husband crosses the street and picks up the trash.

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

15/16

2/10/2018

A Dying Town - The Chronicle of Higher Education

Contact Karin Fischer via Twitter, @karinfischer or email
karin.fischer@chronicle.com. Sarah Brown is @Brown_e_Points on Twitter, and
her email is sarah.brown@chronicle.com.
Photo editing by Erica Lusk, with page design by Ben Myers.

RELATED
State in Two

Copyright © 2017 The Chronicle of Higher Education | About | Subscribe

https://www.chronicle.com/interactives/public-health

16/16