Short Environmental Assessment Form
Part 1 - Project Information

Instructions for Completing
Part 1 - Project Information. The applicant or project sponsor is responsible for the completion of Part 1. Responses
become part of the application for approval or funding, are subject to public review, and may be subject to further verification.
Complete Part 1 based on information currently available. If additional research or investigation would be needed to fully
respond to any item, please answer as thoroughly as possible based on current information.

Complete all items in Part 1. You may also provide any additional information which you believe will be needed by or useful
to the lead agency; attach additional pages as necessary to supplement any item.
Part 1 - Project and Sponsor Information

Name of Action or Project:
Construct New Parking Lot SUCF Project 311021-00

Project Location (describe, and attach a location map):
223 Stone Hill Road, Old Westbury, New York

Brief Description of Proposed Action:
The project includes the construction of approximately 430 new surface parking spaces within the existing Old Westbury Campus. The parking
will be construction in phases, Phase 1A will include the construction of approximately 235 new parking spaces. Phase 1B will add 11 new
parking spaces with minor expansion and reorganization of an existing parking lot. Phase 2A will include the construction of 60 new parking
spaces. Phase 2B will inciude the construction of a through road with no new parking spaces. Phase 3 will include the construction of 121 new
parking spaces. All phases except for 1A will require tree removal, earthmoving, utility relocations, stormwater management facilities and
exterior free-standing lighting. Phase 1B wiil include the rehabilitation of an existing asphalt parking lol, reorganization of the parking lol yielding
a net increase of approximately 11 parking spaces,

Name of Applicant or Sponsor:

Telephone:

548-320-1714

E-Mail: bob kanarkiewicz@suny.edu

State University Construction Fund c/o Robert Kanarkiewicz

Address:
353 Broadway

State:

City/PO:

NY

Albany

Zip Code:

12246

1. Does the proposed action only involve the legislative adoption of a plan, local law, ordinance,

administrative rule, or regulation?
If Yes, attach a narrative description of the intent of the proposed action and the environmental resources that

NO |

C]

may be affected in the municipality and proceed to Part 2. Ifno, continue to question 2.

2. Does the proposed action require a permit, approval or funding from any other governmental Agency?
If Yes, list agency(s) name and permit or approval:

NYSDEC Stormwater GP 0-15-002, SUCF Construction Permit

3.a. Total acreage of the site of the proposed action?
b. Total acreage to be physically disturbed?
c. Total acreage (project site and any contiguous properties) owned
or controlled by the applicant or project sponsor?
4. Check all land uses that occur on, adjoining and near the proposed action.
(Urban = [JRural (non-agriculture) [Industrial
[Commercial

MForest

OParkland

MAgriculture

DAquatic

8.45 acres
8.20 acres
604 acres
W)Residential (suburban)

— (ZOther (specify): !nstitution/academic campus

Page 1 of 3

YES

NO_|

YES

b. Consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan?
6. Is the proposed action consistent with the predominant character of the existing built or natural
landscape?

7. Is the site of the proposed action located in, or does it adjoin, a state listed Critical Environmental Area?

If Yes, identify: Name:SGPA, Reason:Protect groundwater, Agency:Long Island Regional Planning, Date:3-19-93

a, Will the proposed action result in a substantial increase in traffic above present levels?

c. Are any pedestrian accommodations or bicycle routes available on or near site of the proposed action?
9. Does the proposed action meet or exceed the state energy code requirements?
if the proposed action will exceed requirements, describe design features and technologies:

Will the proposed action connect to an existing public/private water supply?

S§ 4 8 2 OO BOON
ms
O
O
SN sNNO

<

ES

b. Are public transportation service(s) available at or near the site of the proposed action?

YES

If No, describe method for providing potable water:
11. Will the proposed action connect to existing wastewater utilities?

13. a. Does any portion of the site of the proposed action, or lands adjoining the proposed action, contain

wetlands or other waterbodies regulated by a federal, state or local agency?

b. Would the proposed action physically alter, or encroach into, any existing wetland or waterbody?
If Yes, identify the wetland or waterbody and extent of alterations in square feet or acres:

OO

12. a. Does the site contain a structure that is listed on either the State or National Register of Historic
Places?
b. Is the proposed action located in an archeological sensitive area?

<
ei
wn

If No, describe method for providing wastewater treatment:

<
&
nD

ES

SRB

10.

N/A

LI

8.

we
=

NO
[|

an

Is the proposed action,
a. A permitted use under the zoning regulations?

Olio
NeiNeNN

5.

14. Identify the typical habitat types that occur on, or are likely to be found on the project site. Check all that apply:

O Shoreline

[1 Forest

Di Agricultural/grasslands

0 Wetland

(Urban

fZ] Suburban

(CJEarly mid-successional

15. Does the site of the proposed action contain any species of animal, or associated habitats, listed
by the State or Federal government as threatened or endangered?

NO |

16. Is the project site located in the 100 year flood plain?

NO | YES

17. Will the proposed action create storm water discharge, either from point or non-point sources?

NO _ | YES

If Yes,

a. Will storm water discharges flow to adjacent properties?

IPABNCC)

b. Will storm water discharges be directed to established conveyance systems Fan

If Yes, briefly describe:

Site discharges to a constructed infiltration stormwater management area then onto existing
system under the jurisdiction of campus.

Page 2 of 3

down

NO

lv] {1 |

(Yes
and storm drains)?

[¥IYES

gradient

YES
C]

open drainage

USDA
2mm

United States

~Department of
Agriculture

NRCS

Natural
Resources
Conservation
Service

A product of the National

Cooperative Soil Survey,
a joint effort of the United
States Department of
Agriculture and other
Federal agencies, State

agencies including the
Agricultural Experiment
Stations, and local
participants

Custom

Soil Resource

Report for

Nassau County,
New York

January 8, 2018

USDA Soils Data

101 ONDINWd MIN

uo17e907 3115

pussey

AN ‘AUNGLS3/
NOLLINULSNOD

dVW

—
AUNALSAM G10

NOILV9O7 SLIS

393T1OD

Y3AINN
31

ad Buikeauns pud)
pup BuvseulBu3 “rw

Aingissn PIO. Ainaysa
}

Site Location Map

EAF Mapper Summary Report

Friday, February 16, 2018 7:40 PM
Disclaimer:

i

The EAF Mapper is a screening tool intended to assist

project sponsors and reviewing agencies in preparing an environmental
assessment form (EAF). Not all questions asked in the EAF are

answered by the EAF Mapper. Additional information on any EAF
question can be obtained by consulting the EAF Workbooks. Although
the EAF Mapper provides the most up-to-date digital data available to

DEC, you may also need to contact local or other data sources in order
to obtain data not provided by the Mapper. Digital data is not a
substitute for agency determinations.

=

eo}

Detroit

Cleveme

Ur ay

Part 1/ Question 7
Area]

[Critical Environmental

on:

Fa

re

Pe

:

ia

dates

pcohunbus

a
sinnati

ele

‘rd

‘Sources

a

.

CeLctrtedstiGs.

erevid
e

Ee

intermsp

INCREMENT F NRCan, Esyi
Wa2RPRANIET!, Esri Ching (Hong

Yes

Part 1 / Question 7 [Critical Environmental
Area - Identify]

Name:SGPA, Reason:Protect groundwater, Agency:Long
Planning, Date:3-19-93

Part 1/ Question
Historic Places]

12a

[National Register of

No

Part 1 /Question 12b

[Archeological Sites}

No

Part 1 / Question 13a [Wetlands or Other
Regulated Waterbodies]

No

Part 1 / Question 15 [Threatened or
Endangered Animal]

No

Part 1 / Question 16 [100 Year Flood Plain}

No

Part 1 / Question 20 [Remediation Site]

No

Short Environmental Assessment Form - EAF Mapper Summary Report

Island Regional

18. Does the proposed action include construction or other activities that result in the impoundment of
water or other liquids (e.g. retention pond, waste lagoon, dam)?
If Yes, explain purpose and size:

NO |

Stomrwater infiltration basin - 0.25 acres in size.

leg

19. Has the site of the proposed action or an adjoining property been the location of an active or closed
solid waste management facility?
If Yes, describe:

NO |

20. Has the site of the proposed action or an adjoining property been the subject of remediation (ongoing or
completed) for hazardous waste?

NO |

YES
[|

If Yes, describe:

YES
Bo

T AFFIRM THAT THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ABOVE IS TRUE
KNOWLEDGE

Applicant/sponsor name: Robert Kanarkiewicz

AND ACCURATE
Date:

Signature: _

PRINT FORM

YES

Page 3 of 3

2]

TO THE BEST OF MY

24/

1B

Preface
Soil surveys contain information that affects land use planning in survey areas.
They highlight soil limitations that affect various land uses and provide information
about the properties of the soils in the survey areas. Soil surveys are designed for
many different users, including farmers, ranchers, foresters, agronomists, urban
planners, community officials, engineers, developers, builders, and home buyers.
Also, conservationists, teachers, students, and specialists in recreation, waste
disposal, and pollution control can use the surveys to help them understand,
protect, or enhance

the environment.

Various land use regulations of Federal, State, and local governments may impose
special restrictions on land use or land treatment. Soil surveys identify soil
properties that are used in making various land use or land treatment decisions.

The information is intended to help the land users identify and reduce the effects of
soil limitations on various land uses. The landowner or user is responsible for

identifying and complying with existing laws and regulations.

Although soil survey information can be used for general farm, local, and wider area
planning, onsite investigation is needed to supplement this information in some
cases. Examples include soil quality assessments (http:/Mwww.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/
portal/nrcs/main/soils/heaith/) and certain conservation and engineering

applications. For more detailed information, contact your local USDA Service Center

(https: //offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app?agency=nres) or your NRCS State Soil
Scientist (http:/Avww.nres.usda.gov/wps/portal/nres/detail/soils/contactus/?
cid=nres142p2_053951).
Great differences in soil properties can occur within short distances. Some soils are

seasonally wet or subject to flooding. Some are too unstable to be used as a
foundation for buildings or roads. Clayey or wet soils are poorly suited to use as
septic tank absorption fields. A high water table makes a soil poorly suited to
basements or underground installations.

The National Cooperative Soil Survey is a joint effort of the United States
Department of Agriculture and other Federal agencies, State agencies including the
Agricultural Experiment Stations, and local agencies. The Natural Resources
Conservation Service (NRCS) has leadership for the Federal part of the National
Cooperative Soil Survey.
Information about soils is updated periodically. Updated information is available
through the NRCS Web Soil Survey, the site for official soil survey information.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in all its

programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, disability,
and where applicable, sex, marital status, familial status, parental status, religion,
sexual orientation, genetic information, political beliefs, reprisal, or because all ora

part of an individual's income is derived from any public assistance program. (Not
all prohibited bases apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require

alternative means for communication of program information (Braiile, large print,
audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice
and TDD). To file a complaint of discrimination, write to USDA, Director, Office of

Civil Rights, 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20250-9410 or
call (800) 795-3272 (voice) or (202) 720-6382 (TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity
provider and employer.

Contents
Preface.
How Soil Surveys Are Made..
Soil Map.
Soil Map....
Map Unit Legend.

Map Unit Descriptions.......
Nassau County, New York...0.0..0..cccceeceeeee

EnB—Enfield silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes.

MkC—WMontauk loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes.
PrD—Plymouth-Riverhead complex, 15 to 35 percent slopes...
Ug—urban land
References.

How Soil Surveys Are Made
Soil surveys are made to provide information about the soils and miscellaneous
areas in a specific area. They include a description of the soils and miscellaneous
areas and their location on the landscape and tables that show soil properties and
limitations affecting various uses. Soil scientists observed the steepness, length,
and shape of the slopes; the general pattern of drainage; the kinds of crops and

native plants; and the kinds of bedrock. They observed and described many soil

profiles. A soil profile is the sequence of natural layers, or horizons, in a soil. The
profile extends from the surface down into the unconsolidated material in which the

soil formed or from the surface down to bedrock, The unconsolidated material is
devoid of roots and other living organisms and has not been changed by other
biological activity.
Currently, soils are mapped according to the boundaries of major land resource

areas (MLRAs). MLRAs are geographically associated !and resource units that
share common characteristics related to physiography, geology, climate, water

resources, soils, biological resources, and land uses (USDA, 2006). Soil survey

areas typically consist of parts of one or more MLRA.

The soils and miscellaneous areas in a survey area occur in an orderly pattern that
is related to the geology, landforms, relief, climate, and natural vegetation of the
area. Each kind of soil and miscellaneous area is associated with a particular kind

of landform or with a segment of the landform. By observing the soils and
miscellaneous areas in the survey area and relating their position to specific
segments of the landform, a soil scientist develops a concept, or model, of how they
were formed. Thus, during mapping, this model enables the soil scientist to predict
with a considerable degree of accuracy the kind of soil or miscellaneous area at a
specific location on the landscape.
Commonly, individual soils on the landscape merge into one another as their
characteristics gradually change. To construct an accurate soil map, however, soil

scientists must determine the boundaries between the soils. They can observe only

a limited number of soil profiles. Nevertheless, these observations, supplemented

by an understanding of the soil-vegetation-landscape relationship, are sufficient to
verify predictions of the kinds of soil in an area and to determine the boundaries.
Soil scientists recorded the characteristics of the soil profiles that they studied. They
noted soil color, texture, size and shape of soil aggregates, kind and amount of rock

fragments, distribution of plant roots, reaction, and other features that enable them
to identify soils. After describing the soils in the survey area and determining their
properties, the soil scientists assigned the soils to taxonomic classes (units).
Taxonomic classes are concepts. Each taxonomic class has a set of soil
characteristics with precisely defined limits. The classes are used as a basis for
comparison to classify soils systematically. Soil taxonomy, the system of taxonomic
classification used in the United States, is based mainly on the kind and character
of soil properties and the arrangement of horizons within the profile. After the soil

Custom Soil Resource Report
scientists classified and named the soils in the survey area, they compared the
individual soils with similar soils in the same taxonomic class in other areas so that
they could confirm data and assemble additional data based on experience and
research.
The objective of soil mapping is not to delineate pure map unit components; the
objective is to separate the landscape into landforms or landform segments that
have similar use and management requirements. Each map unit is defined by a
unique combination of soil components and/or miscellaneous areas in predictable
proportions. Some components may be highly contrasting to the other components
of the map unit. The presence of minor components in a map unit in no way
diminishes the usefulness or accuracy of the data. The delineation of such

landforms and landform segments on the map provides sufficient information for the
development of resource plans. If intensive use of small areas is planned, onsite
investigation is needed to define and locate the soils and miscellaneous areas.

Soil scientists make many field observations in the process of producing a soil map.

The frequency of observation is dependent upon several factors, including scale of

mapping, intensity of mapping, design of map units, complexity of the landscape,
and experience of the soil scientist. Observations are made to test and refine the

soil-landscape model and predictions and to verify the classification of the soils at
specific locations. Once the soil-landscape model is refined, a significantly smaller

number of measurements of individual soil properties are made and recorded.

These measurements may include field measurements,

such as those for color,

depth to bedrock, and texture, and laboratory measurements, such as those for
content of sand, silt, clay, salt, and other components. Properties of each soil
typically vary from one point to another across the landscape.

Observations for map unit components are aggregated to develop ranges of
characteristics for the components. The aggregated values are presented. Direct

measurements do not exist for every property presented for every map unit
component. Values for some properties are estimated from combinations of other

properties.

While a soil survey is in progress, samples of some of the soils in the area generally
are collected for laboratory analyses and for engineering tests. Soil scientists
interpret the data from these analyses and tests as well as the field-observed
characteristics and the soil properties to determine the expected behavior of the
soils under different uses. Interpretations for all of the soils are field tested through

observation of the soils in different uses and under different levels of management.
Some interpretations are modified to fit local conditions, and some new

interpretations are developed to meet local needs. Data are assembled from other

sources, such as research information, production records, and field experience of

specialists. For example, data on crop yields under defined levels of management
are assembled from farm records and from field or plot experiments on the same
kinds of soil.

Predictions about soil behavior are based not only on soil properties but also on
such variables as climate and biological activity. Soil conditions are predictable over
long periods of time, but they are not predictable from year to year. For example,
soil scientists can predict with a fairly high degree of accuracy that a given soil will
have a high water table within certain depths in most years, but they cannot predict
that a high water table will always be at a specific level in the soil on a specific date.
After soil scientists located and identified the significant natural bodies of soil in the
survey area, they drew the boundaries of these bodies on aerial photographs and

Custom Soil Resource Report
identified each as a specific map unit. Aerial photographs show trees, buildings,

fields, roads, and rivers, all of which help in locating boundaries accurately.

Soil Map
The soil map section includes the soil map for the defined area of interest, a list of
soil map units on the map and extent of each map unit, and cartographic symbols
displayed on the map. Also presented are various metadata about data used to
produce the map, and a description of each soil map unit.

Custom Soil Resource Report
Soil Map

4° 4745'N

40° 4745'N

Map Scale: 1:2,240 if printed
on A portrait
oO

ce}

6

(8.5"x 11”) sheet.
120

180

Feet

oO
100
200
400
600
Map projection:
Web Mercator Corer coordinates: WGS84 Edge tics:
UTM Zone 18N WGS84

9

9102
sebeuu! |Buae (s)a}eq

“Juapina aq Aew saepunog yun dew yo Buiyiys
JOUIWW aos ‘yNsal e sy ‘sdew asay) UO peAejdsip abew!
punos6yoeg ay) woy suayip Ajqeqoid pazniGip pue paydwoo

=:peydesBojoyd em

BJM SAU] HOS By) YOIYM UO dew aseg JayjJO Jo OJOYdoYpO ey,
‘¢ PO—600Z '1€ 99q

seauy Aaruns ji0g

reyeg easy Aeving

yaGse] 10 Q00'0S'1
sajeos dew 10} (smoyje aoeds se) pejaqe| ase sun dew \!0g

L102 ‘8 9O ‘PL UoISsJa/,

JOA MEN ‘AjUNOD NesseN
“MO|aq pajsi| (S)e}ep UOISIBA Ay} JO

Se BJEP Pay!ye> SOUN-VSN 24} Woy payesouaé s! PNpoud sil,
*pauinbai ae ease 10 aouR}sIp Jo SuOMe|No]ed syesnd0e
ajow J! pasn aq pinoys ‘uonsefosd o1u09 eese-fenbe siaqiy
ay} se yons ‘eave saniesaid Jey} UoNoaloid y "eae pue soue}s/p

:waysig ayeulpsoog

SHO}sIp jng adeys pue uoqoauIp saniasaid YyoIym ‘uoHoaloid
JOJCOIA GEN BY} UO paseg aie Aanins j10S qayy\ ely Woy sdeyw

(ZS8€:9Sd3) Jo}eUAW ge

dey Jo eNOS

TUN Aaning [los gen

BONA UOHEAISSUOD SadNOSeY jeINJeEN

“sjuswainseaw

dew Joy jaays dew yoea uo ajeos eq au} UO Aja1 asea|d

“ayeos
payejep oso e je uMOYs UdEq aAeY Pjnoo jeu} s}ios GuAses}UCD
JO SBaye jes ay} MoYs JOU Op sdew ay “JueWedeid aul]
llos yo Aoeunooe pue Buiddew jo jleyap ay} Jo Gulpuejsuepunsiw
asneo ued Buiddew jo ajeos oy} puoAag sdew Jo juswefiejuy

*ajeos siyy ye pea aq jou Aew dew jos :Buiwey,
“000'pZ"1
ye peddew aiem jOY NOK asudwios yey) SAafns j10S OU

NOILVINHOSNI dViN

OL

=

punoifyseg

fydessqoyg euoy =

speoy JofeW

~~

Sree Re
shemyBi}{ 9)e}S13}U}

TNT

res)

wed

.

uonepodsuely

a

-

ON39371

°

YD

Vv

~
sjeueg pue sweays
saunjea.| 1972
saunjee aul7 jeloeds
Jao

wdsiom
jodg Auojg ian
earyjiodgs

i

yoday aainosay log woysng,

aos

=

O

jods pos
disso opis
jods papaiy Ajaioneg

5"
jodg oujes.

8

jodg Apueg
dosing yoy
JayeM |euUaed
|

¥

IF

sayem snoaueysosin «= ©
Auenosoauw
mojs ene)

dwems so ysuey

9

wpuey
jodg Ajjanes9

=P

OK

©

38
9

udjeng
uorssaideg

jods feig

vg mouog =
inomoig

oa

Sainjea, Jul jelseds

syulog Wun dey j!os

~~

[_]
aos

saul] Wun dew j!os

suoBAod yun dewios =

(iO) 389383] Jo Ray

(low) ysaxayut jo easy
dV

Custom Soil Resource Report

Map Unit Legend
Map Unit Symbol
|

Map Unit Name

EnB

| Enfield silt loam, 3 to 8 percent
slopes

MkC

| Montauk loam, 8 to 15 percent

|

{PrD

Acres in AO!
|

|

Ug

0.0;

|

2.6 |

slopes

|

| Plymouth-Riverhead complex,

|

Percent of AO!

|

45 to 35 percent slopes

| Urban land

|

| Totals for Area of Interest

0.2

9.9)
12.8

Map Unit Descriptions
The map units delineated on the detailed soi! maps in a soil survey represent the
soils or miscellaneous areas in the survey area. The map unit descriptions, along

with the maps, can be used to determine the composition and properties of a unit.
A map unit delineation on a soil map represents an area dominated by one or more

major kinds of soil or miscellaneous areas. A map unit is identified and named
according to the taxonomic classification of the dominant soils. Within a taxonomic
class there are precisely defined limits for the properties of the soils. On the
landscape, however, the soils are natural phenomena, and they have the

characteristic variability of all natural phenomena. Thus, the range of some
observed properties may extend beyond the limits defined for a taxonomic class.
Areas of soils of a single taxonomic class rarely, if ever, can be mapped without
including areas of other taxonomic classes. Consequently, every map unit is made
up of the soils or miscellaneous areas for which it is named and some minor
components that belong to taxonomic classes other than those of the major soils.
Most minor soils have properties similar to those of the dominant soil or soils in the
map unit, and thus they do not affect use and management. These are called

noncontrasting, or similar, components. They may or may not be mentioned in a
particular map unit description. Other minor components, however, have properties
and behavioral characteristics divergent enough to affect use or to require different
management. These are called contrasting, or dissimilar, components. They

generally are in small areas and could not be mapped separately because of the
scale used. Some small areas of strongly contrasting soils or miscellaneous areas
are identified by a special symbol on the maps. If included in the database for a
given area, the contrasting minor components are identified in the map unit
descriptions along with some characteristics of each. A few areas of minor
components may not have been observed, and consequently they are not
mentioned in the descriptions, especially where the pattern was so complex that it
was impractical to make enough observations to identify all the soils and
miscellaneous areas on the landscape.
The presence of minor components in a map unit in no way diminishes the

usefulness or accuracy of the data. The objective of mapping is not to delineate

11

0.1% |
20.7%

1.4%

|

77.8% |
100.0%

Custom Soil Resource Report
pure taxonomic classes but rather to separate the landscape into landforms or
landform segments that have similar use and management requirements. The
delineation of such segments on the map provides sufficient information for the
development of resource plans. If intensive use of small areas is planned, however,
onsite investigation is needed to define and locate the soils and miscellaneous

areas.

An identifying symbol precedes the map unit name in the map unit descriptions.
Each description includes general facts about the unit and gives important soil

properties and qualities.

Soils that have profiles that are almost alike make up a soil series, Except for
differences in texture of the surface layer, all the soils of a series have major
horizons that are similar in composition, thickness, and arrangement.
Soils of one series can differ in texture of the surface layer, slope, stoniness,
salinity, degree of erosion, and other characteristics that affect their use. On the
basis of such differences, a soil series is divided into soil phases. Most of the areas
shown on the detailed soil maps are phases of soil series. The name of a soil phase

commonly indicates a feature that affects use or management. For example, Alpha
silt loam, 0 to 2 percent slopes, is a phase of the Alpha series.

Some map units are made up of two or more major soils or miscellaneous areas.
These map units are complexes, associations, or undifferentiated groups.
A complex consists of two or more soils or miscellaneous areas in such an

intricate

pattern or in such small areas that they cannot be shown separately on the maps.
The pattern and proportion of the soils or miscellaneous areas are somewhat similar
in all areas. Alpha-Beta complex, 0 to 6 percent slopes, is an example.

An association is made up of two or more geographically associated soils or
miscellaneous areas that are shown as one unit on the maps. Because of present
or anticipated uses of the map units in the survey area, it was not considered
practical or necessary to map the soils or miscellaneous areas separately. The
pattern and relative proportion of the soils or miscellaneous areas are somewhat
similar. Alpha-Beta association, 0 to 2 percent slopes, is an example.

An undifferentiated group is made up of two or more soils or miscellaneous areas
that could be mapped individually but are mapped as one unit because similar

interpretations can be made for use and management. The pattern and proportion
of the soils or miscellaneous areas in a mapped area are not uniform. An area can
be made up of only one of the major soils or miscellaneous areas, or it can be made
up of all of them. Alpha and Beta soils, 0 to 2 percent slopes, is an example.

Some surveys include miscellaneous areas. Such areas have little or no soil
material and support little or no vegetation. Rock outcrop is an example.

12

Custom Soil Resource Report

Nassau County, New York
EnB—Enfield silt loam, 3 to 8 percent slopes
Map Unit Setting
National map unit symbol: 9tsp
Mean annual precipitation: 42 to 46 inches
Mean annual air temperature: 50 to 54 degrees F
Frost-free period: 190 to 230 days
Farmland classification:

Farmland of statewide importance

Map Unit Composition

Enfield and similar soils: 80 percent
Minor components: 20 percent
Estimates are based on observations, descriptions, and transects of the mapunit.

Description of Enfield
Setting
Landform: Outwash plains
Landform position (two-dimensional): Summit
Landform position (three-dimensional): Tread

Down-slope shape: Convex
Across-slope shape: Convex
Parent material:

A silty mantle over acid, sandy and gravelly glaciofluvial deposits

Typical profile
H1- Oto 10 inches: silt loam
H2 - 10 to 32 inches: silt loam
2BC - 32 to 36 inches; gravelly loamy sand
2C - 36 to 60 inches: very gravelly sand
Properties and qualities
Slope: 3 to 8 percent
Depth to restrictive feature: More than 80 inches
Natural drainage class: Well drained
Capacity of the most limiting layer to transmit water (Ksat):
high (0.57 to 1.98 in/hr)

Moderately high to

Depth to water table: More than 80 inches
Frequency of flooding: None
Frequency of ponding: None
Available water storage in profile: Moderate (about 8.9 inches)

Interpretive groups

Land capability classification (irrigated):

None specified

Land capability classification (nonirrigated): 2e
Hydrologic Soil Group: B
Hydric soil rating: No
Minor Components
Montauk
Percent of map unit: 10 percent
Hydric soil rating: No

13

Custom Soil Resource Report

Riverhead
Percent of map unit: 5 percent
Hydric soil rating: No
Scio

Percent of map unit: 5 percent
Hydric soil rating: No

MkC—Montauk

loam, 8 to 15 percent slopes

Map Unit Setting
National map unit symbol: 2w80k
Elevation: 0 to 390 feet
Mean annual precipitation: 40 to 52 inches
Mean annual air temperature: 48 to 55 degrees F
Frost-free period: 195 to 240 days
Farmland classification: Farmland of statewide importance
Map Unit Composition
Montauk and similar soils: 84 percent
Minor components: 16 percent
Estimates are based on observations, descriptions, and transects of the mapunit.
Description of Montauk

Setting
Landform: Hills, drumlins, ground moraines, recessionial moraines
Landform position (two-dimensional): Backslope
Landform position (three-dimensional): Side slope
Down-slope shape: Linear, convex
Across-slope shape: Convex
Parent material: Coarse-loamy over sandy lodgment till derived from gneiss,
granite, and/or schist

Typical profile

Ap - 0 to 4 inches:

loam

Bw - 4 to 26 inches: loam
Bw2 - 26 to 34 inches: sandy loam
2Cd - 34 to 72 inches: gravelly loamy sand

Properties and qualities
Slope: 8 to 15 percent
Depth to restrictive feature: 20 to 39 inches to densic material
Natural drainage class: Well drained
Runoff class: Medium
Capacity of the most limiting layer to transmit water (Ksat):

high (0.00 to 1.42 in/hr)
Depth to water table: About 18 to 37 inches
Frequency of flooding: None
Frequency of ponding: None

14

Very low to moderately

Custom Soil Resource Report
Salinity, maximum in profile: Nonsaline (0.0 to 1.9 mmhos/cm)
Available water storage in profile: Low (about 5.9 inches)
Interpretive groups
Land capability classification (irrigated): None specified
Land capability classification (nonirrigated):
Hydrologic Soil Group: C

3e

Hydric soil rating: No
Minor Components

Greenbelt
Percent of map unit: 10 percent

Landform position (two-dimensional): Summit, backslope, footslope
Landform position (three-dimensional): Side slope, base slope, crest, interfluve
Down-slope shape: Linear, convex
Across-slope shape: Linear, convex
Hydric soil rating: No

Riverhead
Percent of map unit: 2 percent

Landform: Outwash plains, moraines
Landform position (two-dimensiona!): Backslope, shoulder, footslope, toeslope
Landform position (three-dimensional): Tread, riser

Down-slope shape:

Convex

Across-slope shape: Convex
Hydric soil rating: No

Sutton
Percent of map unit: 2 percent
Landform: Hills
Landform position (two-dimensional): Footslope
Landform position (three-dimensional): Base slope
Down-slope shape: Convex
Across-slope shape:

Hydric soil rating:

No

Convex

Chariton, sandy substratum
Percent of map unit:

2 percent

Landform: Terminal moraines
Landform position (two-dimensional): Backslope
Landform position (three-dimensional): Side slope
Down-slope shape: Linear
Across-slope shape: Convex
Hydric soil rating: No

PrD—Plymouth-Riverhead complex, 15 to 35 percent slopes
Map Unit Setting

National map unit symbol:

9tt7

Mean annual precipitation: 42 to 46 inches

15

Custom Soil Resource Report
Mean annual air temperature: 50 to 54 degrees F
Frost-free period: 190 to 230 days
Farmland classification: Not prime farmland
Map Unit Composition
Plymouth and similar soils: 50 percent
Riverhead and similar soils: 40 percent
Minor components: 10 percent
Estimates are based on observations, descriptions, and transects of the mapunit.
Description of Plymouth
Setting

Landform: Outwash plains, moraines
Landform position (two-dimensional): Backslope
Landform position (three-dimensional): Riser
Down-slope shape: Convex
Across-slope shape: Convex

Parent material:

Acid sandy glaciofluvial or deltaic deposits

Typical profile

Oi- 0 to 2 inches: slightly decomposed
H1 -2to 7 inches: loamy sand

H2 - 7 to 28 inches:

H3 - 28 to 60 inches:

plant material

loamy sand

gravelly coarse sand

Properties and qualities

Slope: 15 to 35 percent
Depth to restrictive feature:

‘
More than 80 inches

Natural drainage class: Excessively drained
Capacity of the most limiting layer to transmit water (Ksat):
high (0.20 to 5.95 in/hr)
Depth to water table: More than 80 inches
Frequency of flooding: None
Frequency of ponding: None

Available water storage in profile:

Moderately high to

Very low (about 3.0 inches)

Interpretive groups

Land capability classification (irrigated): None specified
Land capability classification (nonirrigated):

Hydrologic Soil Group:
Hydric soil rating: No

A

7s

Description of Riverhead
Setting
Landform:

Outwash plains, moraines

Landform position (two-dimensional): Backslope
Landform position (three-dimensional): Riser
Down-slope shape: Convex

Across-slope shape:

Parent material:

Convex

Loamy glaciofluvial deposits overlying stratified sand and gravel

Typical profile
Oi- 0 to 1 inches: slightly decomposed plant material
H1-1to 4 inches: sandy loam
H2 - 4 to 25 inches: sandy loam

16

Custom Soil Resource Report
H3 - 25 to 36 inches: loamy sand
H4 - 36 to 60 inches: stratified gravelly sand
Properties and qualities
Slope: 15 to 35 percent
Depth to restrictive feature: More than 80 inches

Natural drainage class: Well drained
Capacity of the most limiting layer to transmit water (Ksat):

high (0.20 to 5.95 in/hr)
Depth to water table: More than 80 inches
Frequency of flooding: None
Frequency of ponding: None
Available water storage in profile: Low (about 4.9 inches)

Moderately high to

Interpretive groups
Land capability classification (irrigated): None specified
Land capability classification (nonirrigated): 6e
Hydrologic Soil Group: A

Hydric soil rating: No

Minor Components
Montauk
Percent of map unit: 5 percent
Hydric soil rating: No
Sudbury
Percent of map unit: 3 percent
Hydric soil rating: No
Unnamed soils, very stony

Percent of map unit: 2 percent
Hydric soil rating: No

Ug—Urban

land

Map Unit Setting

National map unit symbol: 9ttq
Mean annual precipitation: 42 to 46 inches

Mean annual air temperature: 50 to 54 degrees F
Frost-free period: 190 to 230 days
Farmland classification: Not prime farmland
Map Unit Composition
Urban land: 90 percent
Minor components: 10 percent

Estimates are based on observations, descriptions, and transects of the mapunit.

17

Custom Soil Resource Report

Minor Components
Riverhead
Percent of map unit: 2 percent
Hydric soil rating: No
Udorthents
Percent of map unit: 2 percent
Hydric soil rating: No
Hempstead
Percent of map unit:

Hydric soil rating: No

2 percent

Enfield
Percent of map unit: 2 percent
Hydric soil rating: No

Udipsamments

Percent of map

unit:

Hydric soil rating:

No

2 percent

18

References
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).
2004. Standard specifications for transportation materials and methods of sampling
and testing. 24th edition.
American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). 2005. Standard classification of
soils for engineering purposes. ASTM Standard D2487-00.
Cowardin, L.M., V. Carter, F.C. Golet, and E.T. LaRoe.

1979. Classification of

wetlands and deep-water habitats of the United States. U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service FWS/OBS-79/31.
Federal Register. July 13, 1994. Changes in hydric soils of the United States.
Federal Register. September 18, 2002. Hydric soils of the United States.
Hurt, G.W., and L.M. Vasilas, editors. Version 6.0, 2006. Field indicators of hydric
soils in the United States.

National Research Council. 1995. Wetlands: Characteristics and boundaries.
Soil Survey Division Staff. 1993. Soil survey manual. Soil Conservation Service.
U.S. Department of Agriculture Handbook 18. http:/Avww.nres.usda.gov/wps/portal/
nres/detail/national/soils/?cid=nres142p2_054262
Soil Survey Staff. 1999. Soil taxonomy: A basic system of soil classification for
making and interpreting soil surveys. 2nd edition. Natural Resources Conservation
Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture Handbook 436. http://
www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/detail/national/soils/?cid=nrcs142p2_053577
Soil Survey Staff. 2010. Keys to soil taxonomy. 11th edition. U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service. http://
www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/detail/national/soils/?cid=nrcs142p2_053580
Tiner, R.W., Jr. 1985. Wetlands of Delaware. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and
Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, Wetlands
Section.

United States Army Corps of Engineers, Environmental Laboratory. 1987. Corps of
Engineers wetlands delineation manual. Waterways Experiment Station Technical
Report Y-87-1.

United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
National forestry manual. http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/detail/soils/
home/?cid=nres142p2_053374
United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
National range and pasture handbook. http:/Avww.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/
detail/national/landuse/rangepasture/?cid=stelprdb1043084

19

Custom Soil Resource Report
United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.

National soil survey handbook, title 430-VI. http:/Awww.nres.usda.gov/wps/portal/
nrcs/detail/soils/scientists/?cid=nres142p2_054242

United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.
2006. Land resource regions and major land resource areas of the United States,
the Caribbean, and the Pacific Basin. U.S. Department of Agriculture Handbook

296. http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portai/nrcs/detail/national/soils/?
cid=nres142p2_053624

United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service. 1961. Land
capability classification. U.S. Department of Agriculture Handbook 210. http://
www.nres.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/nres142p2_052290.pdf

20

FEMA Flood Mapping —

ea

x

2

>

rm

ono”

9}!

s f

NVSSVN

8102/Z/T :G3SS3I0V ALVA
ALNNOD

AN ‘AUNELSIM G10 ‘GVOU TIIH 3NOLS E7Z

J

SOvVTOIGSO9E TANVd — ONIiddVIA INU VIN

eee

1O1 ONDWd MIN NOLLINUISNOD — ANNALSIM G10 3937109 ALISUBAINN 3LVLS

uo1j}e907

fa |

aa8

puasey

OS

Sts Sgn
S000
= a
A,

a

oo

‘S907
1 AN Hd WORD

: coe \ensans/ wun

ERST

ene aend

WOOD

eT AMR hen L ne Pee
:

6O0Z/LLG He
SOvLoo6soes
TANVd

:

ae Bammer lyrad

*

SHPO Mapping
SHPO

No Effect letter

TE Cee EES

:aassadoV ALVG

_ pes mentors Sees oe ee

810Z/Z/T

ALNNOD NVSSVN
AN ‘AUNGLSAM G10 ‘AVON TIHH ANOLS E77
1O1 SNDIVd MIN NOLLINYLSNOD — AYNGLSAM G10 3937109 ALISHAAINN 3LVLS
SVIYV JALLISNIS ATIVIIDIONTAVHIYY ANY SALIS Y3LSIDIY TWNOLLVN dH¥dOSAN
sealy anipsuas Ajjeo1Zojoayoiy
pafoig uoljeynsuoz
easy AZojoaeyaiy Aanins

early Buipjing Aaains
UO!}e907] BUS

puasay

worselurars
4/ GLO ULE BTS U0Kd
oy HAsO) LEST

x “Od ‘Bulk@nuns Pur]
pup Buvsesuibug ‘rw

NYSDEC

Environmental Mapper

Endangered Species and State Wetlands /
Buffers

Vv 3Lvad

Re ee

8102/Z/T :aass

oe

‘AVOU TIHH AYOLS E7Z

AINNOD NVSSYN

AN ‘AUNELSIM GI

YAaddVI JDYNOSIAY

101 ONDIYWd MAN NOLLINYLSNOD - YNGLSIM G10 3937109 ALISUIAINN ALY.
TVLNAINNOYIAN] D30SAN
sjeuluy

JO sque}q sey Fie

0132907 ays coe

leer]

puasey

NS

ELST

wor solu"

Oy WANA

NYSDEC

Environmental Mapper
NWi Wetiands

101 ONDIYWd MAN

YaddVIN

spueyay
quagzsawy Jazemysas4
spuejjayy qniys
/paysasio4 sayemysa.4

puog Jayemysas4

uo!}e207 AUS

puage7

NVWSSVN

2: NESTS CEES oe TR
ETE
8102/2/T :GaSS390V JLVG

ALNNOS

EE”

TWNOILLVWN SMISN

‘AVOU THH JYOLS E7Z
AUNGLSIM G10 IDATIOD ALISUSAINN SLVLS

SONVILIM

AN ‘AUNGLSIM G10
NOLLINYLSNOD —

AYOLN3ANI

worsohurann

‘6urhenung pud)

pup Buvseul6ug ‘rw

“9 d

Sole Source Aquifer Map

NVSSYN

8102/8/T :assa02V ALva
ALNNOD

AN ‘AYNGLSAM G10 ‘VOU TIH YOLS Ezz
2
1O1 ONDIYWd MAN NOLLINULSNOD — AYNGLSAM G10 3DITIOD ALISUIAINN ALWLS
dVIN YadINOV JDUNOS JIOS AINAOWV NOILIFLOYd TWLNIWNOUWIANS

RE HOYT’

stoped
S9OTL AN

Waser EEST

Te hee aoe
"O'd ‘Bulkanung pudq
puo Buveeul6u3 “rw

aYOLS £27

8102/8/T :G3SS3I9V 3LVG

AN ‘peiians Gk Gaon

LOT ONDIUWd MAN NOLLINULSNOD ~ 3D3TIOD ALISUBAINN ALWLS

dV uasINdW S9SN

262] asau “apSGaM SOSN ay} wo yodas

aBojoaGoupAy
1 speo] sapnbe ue uo SunpgD

sayinby Aiewig

wor sfurann

‘Buikaning puny

eon eno est
in yea es
sort
O'd

puo Buyeeuj6u3 “tw

uoljze907 aus XA
MORIOYOD

at

S}E}S 410A MON
ul suayinby Arewid

8102/8/T

‘Gassa29V aLva

ALNNOD NVSSWN

AN ‘AUNGLSAM G10 ‘GVOU THH 3YOLS EZZ
NOLLINYLSNOD — JDITIOD ALISUAAINN SLVWLS

LOT SNINYVd MIN

dVIN YASINOV GILVAGMOSNOINN SOSN AYOA MAN

=

.

.

'6

=Ts

werrmoharnen

sarees

‘

ae Core

;

=)

er

Asepunog Ajuno>

Asepunog Wun 230jo1pAH

F

eauy Apnis sayinby [J

quayxq Jayinby

8102/8/T :a3$S3a20V 3Lva

ALNNOD NVSSWN

AN ‘AUNGLSIM G10 ‘GVOU TIIH JYOLS E7Z

dVW Y3sINOV SDSN IYOA MAN

1O1 ONDINVd MIN NOLLONYLSNOD ~ JDITIOD ALISHSAINN 3LWLS

ne

worsplarnvan,

‘BuA@AINe DUDT

*y

ord
.
Sip
pud Buvesui6ug ‘yw

. "4

Jayinby pues} buo7
Jayinby Asewlig
Jayinby jedinuig

U01}2907 1S

A
3}2}S JOA MAN UI
be feSuayinby jediouiig pue Arewlid

USFW ipac Database

United States Department of the Interior
FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
Long Island Ecological Services Field Office
340 Smith Road

Shirley, NY 11967
Phone: (631) 286-0485 Fax: (631) 286-4003

In Reply Refer To:
Consultation Code: 05E1L100-2018-SLI-0178

January 02, 2018

Event Code: 05SE1LI00-2018-E-00391

Project Name: State University College Old Westbury - New Parking Lot
Subject:

List of threatened and endangered species that may occur in your proposed project
location, and/or may be affected by your proposed project

To Whom It May Concern:

The enclosed species list identifies threatened, endangered, proposed and candidate species, as
well as proposed and final designated critical habitat, that may occur within the boundary of your
proposed project and/or may be affected by your proposed project. The species list fulfills the
requirements of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) under section 7(c) of the

Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

New information based on updated surveys, changes in the abundance and distribution of
species, changed habitat conditions, or other factors could change this list. Please feel free to
contact us if you need more current information or assistance regarding the potential impacts to

federally proposed, listed, and candidate species and federally designated and proposed critical

habitat. Please note that under 50 CFR 402.12(e) of the regulations implementing section 7 of the

Act, the accuracy of this species list should be verified after 90 days. This verification can be
completed formally or informally as desired. The Service recommends that verification be
completed by visiting the ECOS-IPaC website at regular intervals during project planning and
implementation for updates to species lists and information. An updated list may be requested

through the ECOS-IPaC system by completing the same process used to receive the enclosed list.
The purpose of the Act is to provide a means whereby threatened and endangered species and the
ecosystems upon which they depend may be conserved. Under sections 7(a)(1) and 7(a)(2) of the
Act and its implementing regulations (50 CFR 402 et seq.), Federal agencies are required to

utilize their authorities to carry out programs for the conservation of threatened and endangered
species and to determine whether projects may affect threatened and endangered species and/or

designated critical habitat.

A Biological Assessment is required for construction projects (or other undertakings having

similar physical impacts) that are major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the

01/02/2018

Event Code: 05E1L100-2018-E-00391

2

human environment as defined in the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)
(c)). For projects other than major construction activities, the Service suggests that a biological
evaluation similar to a Biological Assessment be prepared to determine whether the project may
affect listed or proposed species and/or designated or proposed critical habitat. Recommended
contents of a Biological Assessment are described at 50 CFR 402.12.
If a Federal agency determines, based on the Biological Assessment or biological evaluation, that

listed species and/or designated critical habitat may be affected by the proposed project, the
agency is required to consult with the Service pursuant to 50 CFR 402. In addition, the Service

recommends that candidate species, proposed species and proposed critical habitat be addressed

within the consultation. More information on the regulations and procedures for section 7

consultation, including the role of permit or license applicants, can be found in the "Endangered
Species Consultation Handbook" at:
http://www.fws.gov/endangered/esa-library/pdt/TOC-GLOS.PDF
Please be aware that bald and golden eagles are protected under the Bald and Golden Eagle
Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 668 et seq.), and projects affecting these species may require
development of an eagle conservation plan

(http://www.fws.gov/windenergy/eagle_guidance.html). Additionally, wind energy projects
should follow the wind energy guidelines (http://www.fws.gov/windenergy/) for minimizing
impacis to migratory birds and bats.
Guidance for minimizing impacts to migratory birds for projects including communications
towers (e.g., cellular, digital television, radio, and emergency broadcast) can be found at:

http://www.fws.gov/migratorybirds/CurrentBirdIssues/Hazards/towers/towers.htm;
http://www.towerkill.com; and

http://www. fws.gov/migratorybirds/CurrentBirdIssues/Hazards/towers/comtow.
html.
We appreciate your concern for threatened and endangered species. The Service encourages

Federal agencies to include conservation of threatened and endangered species into their project
planning to further the purposes of the Act. Please include the Consultation Tracking Number in
the header of this letter with any request for consultation or correspondence about your project

that you submit to our office.
Attachment(s):
=

Official Species List

01/02/2018

Event Code: 05E1L100-2018-E-00391

Official Species List
This list is provided pursuant to Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, and fulfills the

requirement for Federal agencies to "request of the Secretary of the Interior information whether
any species which is listed or proposed to be listed may be present in the area of a proposed
action".
This species list is provided by:
Long Island Ecological Services Field Office
340 Smith Road

Shirley, NY 11967
(631) 286-0485

01/02/2018

Event Code: 05E1L100-2018-E-00391

Project Summary
Consultation Code:

05E1L100-2018-SLI-0178

Event Code:

0S5E1LI00-2018-E-00391

Project Name:

State University College Old Westbury - New Parking Lot

Project Type:

DEVELOPMENT

Project Description:

Installation of parking lots and associated drainage, grading, lighting and
site work on the existing campus.

Project Location:
Approximate location of the project can be viewed in Google Maps:
ian

g

Gas

attnce

Counties:

Nassau, NY

01/02/2018

Event Code: 05E1L100-2018-E-00391

Endangered Species Act Species
There is a total of 6 threatened, endangered, or candidate species on this species list. Species on
this list should be considered in an effects analysis for your project and could include species

that exist in another geographic area. For example, certain fish may appear on the species list

because a project could affect downstream species. See the "Critical habitats" section below for

those critical habitats that lie wholly or partially within your project area under this office's
jurisdiction. Please contact the designated FWS office if you have questions.

Mammals
NAME

STATUS

Northern Long-eared Bat Myotis septentrioialis

Threatened

No critical baie has been designated for this species.
Species profile:

ttps://ecos.

fu

¥

species/9

Birds
NAME

STATUS

Piping Plover Charadrius melodus

Threatened

Population: [Atlantic Coast and Northern Great Plains populations] - Wherever found, except
those areas where listed as endangered.
There is final critical habitat for this species. Your location is outside the critical habitat.

Species profile: https://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/6039

Red Knot Calidris canutus rufa

No critical habitat has been designated for this species.

Threatened

Species profile: https://ecos. fws.gov/ecp/species/1864

Roseate Tern Sterna dougallii dougallii

Population: northeast U.S. nesting pop.
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.

Endangered

Species profile: https://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/2083

Flowering Plants
NAME

STATUS

Sandplain Gerardia Agalinis acuta

Endangered

No critical habitat has been designated for this species.

Species profile: https://ecos. fws.gov/ecp/species/8 128

Seabeach Amaranth Amaranthus pumilus

No critical habitat has been designated for this species.

Species profile: https://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/8549

Threatened

Event Code: 05E1L100-2018-E-00391

Critical habitats
THERE ARE NO CRITICAL HABITATS WITHIN YOUR PROJECT AREA UNDER THIS OFFICE'S
JURISDICTION.

b

01/02/2018

Northern Long-eared Bat Occurrences by Town
(NYSDEC — 2016)

umol

Ad

$99U9J1NDIN

Lent

1eA

9L0z ‘uIG Ae JO Se a}esndoR e}eq

|

$20UBIINIOO JAWWINS 9 JO}UI/\ PSWUYUOD Er

S80UaJINDIO JOWWWINS pauuyuoD

UJOULION

its fh

D

pusbe7y

$89UALINDIO JOIUI/\\ POWYUOD Bes

DaJea-Huo7

County

Town

Albany

Guilderland

Allegany

Winter | Summer

Yes

Knox

Yes

New Scotland

Yes

Belfast

Yes

Caneadea

Yes

New Hudson

Cattaraugus

Cayuga

Yes

Franklinville

Yes

Little Valley

Yes

Lyndon

Yes

Mansfield

Yes

New Albion

Yes

Ledyard

Chautauqua

Chautauqua

Clinton

Ausable

=

Ellington
Black Brook

Yes
Yes

Columbia

Ancram
Canaan

Yes

Erie

Collins

Yes

Newstead

Yes

Crown Point

Yes

Elizabethtown

Yes

Minerva

Yes

Moriah

Yes

Ticonderoga

Yes

Westport

Yes

Franklin

Bellmont

Yes

Greene

Catskill

Yes

Indian Lake
Alexandria

Yes

Brownville
Champion

Yes

Hamilton
Jefferson

—

Lewis

Yes
Yes
Yes

Denmark

Montgomery

Portage

Root

Yes

Yes

Diana

Livingston

Yes
Yes

Clayton
Le Ray
Watertown

Yes
Yes

Yes

Essex

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Onondaga

Clay
De Witt

Orange

Putnam

Rensselaer

Saratoga

Schoharie

Schulyer
Steuben

Yes
Yes

Geddes

Yes

Lysander

Yes

Blooming Grove

Yes

Highlands

Yes

Tuxedo

Yes

Warwick

Yes

Woodbury

Yes

Putnam Valley

Yes

Southeast

Yes

Berlin

Yes

Greenfield

Yes

Carlisle

Yes

Cobleskill

Yes

Schoharie

Yes

Wright

Yes

Yes

Hector
Caton

Yes
Yes

Lindley

Yes

Tuscarora

Yes

Suffolk

Brookhaven

Yes

Sullivan

Manmakating

Yes

Ulster

Kingston

Yes

Rosendale

Yes

Hague
Dresden

Yes
Yes

Fort Ann

Yes

Warren
Washington

Oyster Bay Critical Environmental Area (CEA)
(NYSDEC — 1988)

Special Groundwater Protection Area
(Oyster Bay) Critical Environmental Area (CEA) Map #8
Effective Date of Designation: 2-10-88

nati

: Suffolk

HEMPSTEAD

Legend

0

Adjacent CEAs

[E[] special Groundwater Protection Area CEA Map #8
Base Map: Town or City Boundary for NYS

Disclaimer: This map
deemed accurate but
additional information
Critical Environmental

1.5

[=

3
es

1 inch equals 1.5 miles

Vilos

®

For Adjacent CEAs see map:

SGPA Map #9

was prepared by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation using the most current data available. It is
is not guaranteed. NYS DEC is not responsible for any inaccuracies in the data. Please contact the designating authority for
regarding legal boundary descriptions. SGPA Maps 1 through 9 represent a portion of the SGPA designated as a
Area.

Agency Use Only [If applicable]
Project:
Date:

|

Short Environmental Assessment Form

Part 2 - Impact Assessment

Part 2 is to be completed by the Lead Agency.
Answer all of the following questions in Part 2 using the information contained in Part | and other materials submitted by

No, or
small
impact

Moderate
to large
impact

NN|N)NISJN/N
|S |NJS/N/8

OOO JO

the project sponsor or otherwise available to the reviewer. When answering the questions the reviewer should be guided by
the concept “Have my responses been reasonable considering the scale and context of the proposed action?”

Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?
Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?

4.

Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics that caused the

5.

Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic or

6.

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to incorporate
reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy opportunities?

7.

Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?

establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?

b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8.

Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic, archaeological,
architectural or aesthetic resources?

9.

Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g., wetlands,
waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?
11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?

PRINT FORM

Page 1 of 2

OOOO

Nv

Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
regulations?

w

1.

may
occur

OO)O

may
occur

|

Agency Use Only [If applicable]
Project:
Date:

Short Environmental Assessment Form
Part 3 Determination of Significance
For every question in Part 2 that was answered “moderate to large impact may occur”, or if there is a need to explain why a
particular element of the proposed action may or will not result in a significant adverse environmental impact, please
complete Part 3. Part 3 should, in sufficient detail, identify the impact, including any measures or design elements that
have been included by the project sponsor to avoid or reduce impacts. Part 3 should also explain how the lead agency
determined that the impact may or will not be significant. Each potential impact should be assessed considering its setting,
probability of occurring, duration, irreversibility, geographic scope and magnitude. Also consider the potential for shortterm, long-term and cumulative impacts.
See attached Part 3 narrative

C]

Check this box if you have determined, based on the information
that the proposed action may result in one or more potentially
environmental impact statement is required.
Check this box if you have determined, based on the information
that the proposed action will not result in any significant adverse

State University Construction Fund

Signatteé

Date

ofResponsible Officer in Lead Agency

of Resp@psibl® Officer in Lead Agency

PRINT FORM

and analysis above, and any supporting documentation,
environmental impacts.

2/21/18

Name of Lead Agency
Robert Kanarkiewicz
Print or Typ:

and analysis above, and any supporting documentation,
large or significant adverse impacts and an

Page 2 of 2

12-12-79 (3/99)-9¢

SEQR
State Environmental Quality Review
NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Notice of Determination of Non-Significance

Project Number:

311021

This notice is issued

Date: 02/21/18

pursuant to Part 617 of the implementing

regulations

Environmental Quality Review Act) of the Environmental Conservation Law.

pertaining to Article 8 (State

The State University Construction Fund as lead agency has determined that the proposed action described
below will not have a significant environmental impact and a Draft Impact Statement will not be prepared.
Name of Action:

Construct New Parking Lot, SUNY College at Old Westbury (the Project)

SEQR Status:

Type |
Unlisted

CJ

Conditioned Negative Deciaration:

L] Yes

KX] No

Description of Action:
The project includes the construction of approximately 430 new surface parking spaces within the existing
SUNY College of Old Westbury campus. The parking will be construction in phases. Phase 1A will include
the construction of approximately 235 new parking spaces. Phase 1B will add 11 new parking spaces with
minor expansion and reorganization of an existing parking lot. Phase 2A will include the construction of 60
new parking spaces. Phase 2B will include the construction of a through road with no new parking spaces.

Phase 3 will include the construction of 121 new parking spaces. All phases except for Phase 1B will
require tree removal, earthmoving, utility relocations, stormwater management facilities and exterior free-

standing lighting. Phase 1B will include the rehabilitation of an existing asphalt parking lot, reorganization of
the parking lot that will yield a net increase of approximately 11 new parking spaces,
Location: (Include street address and the name of the municipality/county. A location map of appropriate scale
is also recommended.)
The Project lies within the central portion of the SUNY College of Old Westbury campus
address of 223 Stone Hill Road, Old Westbury, New York

with a physical

Reasons Supporting This Determination:
(See 617.7(a)-(c) for requirements of this determination; see 617.7(d) for Conditioned Negative Declaration)
After considering the criteria for the determining significance as set forth in 6 NYCRRR

617.7(e), the New

York State Office of General Services has determined, for the reasons discussed below, that the proposed
Project will not have

a significant adverse

declaration under SEQRA is warranted.

impact

on the environment

and the issuance

of a negative

Construction Impacts

The construction of the Project is not expected to result in any significant adverse environmental impacts.
Several

short

term

and

minor

impacts

are

expected

during

construction.

For

example,

the

use

of

construction vehicles and equipment may increase air emissions and noise temporarily on site. These
temporary emissions are not expected to adversely affect air quality in the area and the efficient use and
proper maintenance of both vehicles and equipment will mitigate these impacts. Additionally, common
construction practices (i.e. water suppressants, blanket screening, limiting activities to non-windy days,
etc.) will be used as necessary to minimize additional impacts, if any.
Waste generated during construction will not result in any significant adverse environmental impacts. All
construction waste will be collected and removed on a regular basis. Construction waste will be delivered

off-site to a proper disposal facility. The efficient management of construction materials will be employed
on-site to discourage waste and reduce construction costs.

A site specific stormwater pollution prevention plan has been developed and will be implemented to control
construction phase water run off and control sediment and erosion from disturbed areas.
Groundwater
The Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the quality or quantity of groundwater resources
in the area.
The

Project proposed

campus.

no new buildings and does

not result in additional employees

Therefore, there will be no additional demands

sewage as a result of the project.

being located at the

for water or additional generators of sanitary

Additionally, as stated below, there will be an increase in the impervious area within the site, potentially
resulting in a greater rate and volume of runoff from stormwater, however, these increases will be mitigated
to the greatest extent practicable by the inclusion of the required stormwater quality and quantity controls
as mandated by local and state laws.

The project is located within the Oyster Bay Critical Environmental Area (CEA), which is defined as a
special groundwater protection area. The infiltration facilities proposed will management stormwater runoff
are designed in accordance with the NYSSMDM and as such, meet the objective of the Long Island
Planning Commission regarding protection of the groundwater resource of the region.
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the quantity
or quality of groundwater resources.

Surface Water
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the quantity

or quality of surface water resources.

There are not regulated wetlands within the or immediately adjacent

to the project site.

Furthermore,

increased

during

as discussed

impervious

construction.

areas

As

below

and

such,

the

may

the

Project will result in an

increase

in stormwater

runoff due to

be susceptible to sediment transport and erosion of surface

project

sponsor

prepared

and

will

implement

soils

a fully conforming

Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) that provides for the requisite stormwater
quantity controls both during construction and as part of the permanent stormwater facilities.

quality

and

Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the quantity
or quality of surface water resources.
Threatened and Endangered Species
NYSDEC

EAF

Mapper on-line application (New York State Natural Heritage Program

(NYNHP))

reported

no threatened or endangered species within the project area. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service

(USFWS) Information for Planning and Conservation (IPaC) system, identifies the following federallythreatened or endangered species that may be present within the project vicinity:
Northern long-eared bat (Myotis septentrionalis), mammal, Status: Threatened.
of the eastern United States.

has a range that extends throughout all of New York and much

The NLEB

Pursuant to the NYNHP Conservation Guide for the NLEB (NYNHP, 2016), the NLEB is a federally-listed
threatened bat species that is endemic to North America. The NLEB will hibernate in caves or mines in the
winter months and roost singly or in colonies under bark or in tree crevices during the late spring, summer

and early fall. Suitable habitats for this species consists of a wide variety of forested and wooded habitats

that can range from dense to loose aggregates of trees. Habitat selected by individuals tend to contain
potential roost sites which are living or dead trees or shrubs with diameter at breast height (D.B.H.)
measurements of three inches or greater which also have exfoliating bark, cracks, crevices, and hollows. A
variety of tree species are used for roosting. The most severe threat to the NLEB is disease (white-nose
syndrome). Although white-nose syndrome has been responsible for the dramatic decline in the bat’s
populations, major factors affecting bat viability also include habitat loss or degradation, impacts to
hibernacula, and collisions with man-made structures (NYNHP, 2016).
As indicated in the NYSDEC

occurrences

of the

NLEB

map of NLEB

have

been

Occurrences

identified

in

by Town

Suffolk

(NYSDEC,

County,

NY

2016b), confirmed

in the

town

summer

of Brookhaven.

Brookhaven is located to the east of the Project Site, approximately 31 miles away. There are no known
NLEB hibernaculum within 5 miles of the Project Site. As indicated in the NYSDEC map of NLEB
Occurrences by Town (NYSDEC, 2016b), no confirmed summer occurrences of the NLEB have been
identified in Nassua County, NY.
The NYSDEC requires conditions on tree cutting in order to protect NLEB that may be roosting in trees in
the vicinity of NLEB hibernacula and documented summer occurrences (e.g., located within 5 miles of a
known hibernation site or 1.5 miles of a documented summer occurrence). There are no known NLEB
hibernaculum within 5 miles of the Project Site and 31 miles from documented summer occurrences within
the town of Brookhaven, Suffolk County. Because the Project Site is located more than 5 miles from the
nearest known NLEB winter habitat, and more than 1.5 miles from the nearest known NLEB summer
habitat, the Project is considered to be outside the NLEB occupied habitat, and no tree cutting restrictions
apply.
Piping

Plover

(Charadrius melodus),

bird, Status: Threatened.

The Piping Plovers breed on dry sandy beaches or in areas that have been filled with dredged sand, often

in areas with little or no beach grass. The project site is inland with the closest marine habitat located
approximately 3.8 miles west near Roslyn, New York. The site is predominantly wooded with underbrush
and surrounded by the developed areas of the campus. The project site does not include the noted habitat
to support the species.

Red Knot (Calidris canutus), bird, Status: Threatened.
The Red

Knot breeds in drier tundra areas, such as sparsely vegetated hillsides. Outside of breading

season, this species is found primarily in intertidal, marine habitats, especially near costal inlets, estuaries,
and bays. The project site is inland with the closest marine habitat located approximately 3.8 miles west
near Roslyn, New York. The site is predominantly wooded with underbrush and surrounded by the
developed areas of the campus. As such, the project does not include the noted habitat to support the

species.

Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii dougallii), bird, Status: Endangered.
The Roseate Tern nest on rocky coastal islands, outer beaches or salt marsh islands. The only active
colony in New York is on Great Gull Island, located over 70 miles east of the project site.

Sandplain Gerardia (Agalinis acuta), flowering plant, Status: Endangered.
The

Sandplain

Gerardia

needs

prairie

habitat

dominated

by

native

bunchgrasses,

especially

little

bluestream. On Long Island, significant remnant populations remain only at Sayville, New York, 22 miles
southeast of the project site, Hempstead Plains, New York, 4 miles south of the project site and Montauk,
New York, 86 miles east of the project site.

Seabeacj Amaranth (Amaranthus pumilus), flowering plant, Status: Threatened.
The Seabeach Amaranth lives in open, sandy beach habitat, typically 8 inches to 5 feet above the mean

high tide line. The project site is inland with the closes marine habitat located approximately 3.8 miles west
near Roslyn, New York. As such, the project does not include the noted habitat to support the species.
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on threatened
and endangered species.

Traffic
The Project will not result in additional employees or vehicle trips.
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on traffic.

Noise
The Project is not expected to result in any adverse change to noise levels on
Construction activities associated with the Project may result in a temporary increase
These emissions are not expected to be significant. The construction activities
applicable local, state and federal regulations. Moreover, construction is not expected

Sundays or on holidays, further reducing noise impacts.

or around the site.
in noise emissions.
will comply with ail
to occur at night, on

Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on noise.
Solid Waste Disposal
The Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the disposal of solid waste in the area. The
Project proposed no new buildings and does not result in additional employees being located at the
campus. Therefore, there will not be additional waste generated during the operational phase as a result of

the project.
No

waste

will be disposed

of on-site.

All recyclable

materials

will be separated

in accordance

with

applicable local, state and federal laws. All waste generated from the Project will be collected by a local
waste hauler and disposed of at a permitted facility.
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the ability of

the campus and local facilities to manage solid waste disposal
Drainage

The Project will not have any significant adverse impact nor increase the potential for drainage problems
on or adjacent to the site.

With the re-grading of the land, other impervious surfaces will become

susceptible to increased rate and volume of stormwater runoff.

more

The project design provides for drainage to be collected via closed drainage systems and conveyed to
strategically placed stormwater management areas. These stormwater management areas provide both
water quality and quantity controls that will reduce anticipated pollutant loads to the surface and

groundwater and maintain the existing quantity of stormwater runoff from the Project to adjoining down
gradient areas. A fully conforming Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) has been prepared for

the project and will be made part of the contract documents. The stormwater management plan conform to
the specifications of the latest version of the NYSDEC - New York State Stormwater Management Design
Manual. Moreover, both temporary construction activities that result in potential sediment transport and
periodic erosion of soils and the permanent water quality and quantity controls to be implemented are
permitted under the State SPDES Permit Program, which will be applied for prior to construction.
Based

on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact nor increase

the potential for drainage problems on or adjacent to the site.
Water Supply

The Project proposed no new buildings and does not result in additional employees being located at the
campus. Therefore, there will not be additional demands for water as a result of the project.
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the existing
water supply and distribution systems.
Sanitary Sewer
The Project proposed no new buildings and does not result in additional employees being located at the
campus. Therefore, there will not be additional sewage generated as a result of the project.
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the existing

sanitary sewer conveyance and treatment systems.
Electric/ Gas Service

The Project will not have any significant adverse impact on electric or gas services provided to the area.
The project has not demands for natural gas. Electric will be required for exterior, freestanding light fixtures
and other minimal demands and will be supplied to the Project via the campus’ internal electrical system.

There is sufficient capacity to meet the demands of the Project. The Project will connect to existing facilities

within or adjacent to the facility, where necessary.
Community Character

The Project is being developed as part of the long-term strategy of the SUNY College at Old Westbury
systematically increase available parking to serve its student and employee population. The State

University Construction Fund, in its review finds that:
1.

2.
3.

The Project as a whole will add to the assets of the community and will advance the goals of the SUCF
and Campus.

The Project density and scale are compatible as appropriate with the current and planned character of

the campus.
The construction of new parking lots or rearrangement of existing parking lots is commensurate with the
overall benefit to the campus.

Based on the foregoing discussion, the Project will not have
community character of the site or adjoining neighborhoods.

any significant adverse

impact

on the

Miscellaneous

In addition to the foregoing the State University Construction Fund has also determined that the Project will
not result in:

1.

2.
3.

4.
5.
6.

The impairment of the environmental characteristics of a Critical Environmental Area as designated

pursuant to 6 NYCRR 617.14(g). The project is located within the Oyster Bay Critical Environmental
Area. The project will implement stormwater management strategies consistent with NYSDEC design
requirements for the protection of the groundwater resource and regional planning objectives to protect
the special groundwater protection area.
A major change in use of either the quantity or type of energy. The Project will increase the existing
energy demands of the community.
However, with the extension of the appropriate service
infrastructure, there will be adequate demand to serve the Project.
The creation of a hazard to human health. The Project will promote the public health, safety and welfare
by providing appropriate mitigation measures.

The

creation

of a

material

demand

for

other

actions

that

would

result

in

one

consequences. The Project will not result in a demand for other actions.
Changes in two or more elements of the environment, no one of which has a significant
environment, but when considered together result in a substantial adverse impact on the
No such changes will result from the Project.
Two or more related actions undertaken, funded or approved by an agency, none of which
have a significant impact on the. environment,
but when considered cumulatively would
more of the criteria in 6 NYCRR 617.7(c). No such cumulative impacts will occur.

of the

above

impact on the
environment.
has or would
meet one or

For the reasons set forth above, the proposed Project will not have any significant adverse impact on the
environment and the issuance of a negative declaration under SEQRA is warranted.