Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                          Friday, January 29, 2016

Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding),  Thomas Lilly (Vice
Chair/PEL), Yogesh More (Secretary/Treasurer/Math/CIS), Minna Barrett
(University Senator), Kathleen Greenberg (At Large Rep. to EC/Senator at
Large), Lingxiang Li (Senator At-Large), Shalei Simms (Univ. Senator
Alternate), ), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (Professional),
Ana Martinez (Professional), Laura Anker (First Year Experience), Emma
Antoban (Library),Yu Lei (MMF), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education),
Blidi Stemn (Childhood Education), Andrew Hashey (Exceptional Education),
Young-Joo Kim (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graph (English), Juan Galvis
(H&P), Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages), Ashlee Lien (Psychology),
Sarah Smith ( Public Health), Laura Limonic (Sociology), Patty Harris
(Visual Arts), Frank Sanacory (CAP Comm.), Jacob Heller (FRR Com.), Amanda
Frisken (GenEd Com.), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLR Com.).

Senators Absent: Lingxiang Li (Senator At-Large), Manya Mascareno (Senator
At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large
Large), Jeffry D’Amico (Accounting), Sujani Reddy (American Studies),
Shaadi Mehr (Biological Studies), Chris Hobson (ARPT Comm.), Zenaida
Madurka (HLCC), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLC) Jacob Heller (FRR Committee).

Justified Absence: Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian),  Thomas Lilly (Vice
Chair/PEL), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large),

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP),
Wayne Edwards (VP Students Affairs), Jishan Zhu (Dean, SOB).

Visitors Present: Anthony Barbera (Assistant VP, Academic Affairs ), Ed
Bever (H&P), Christina Notaro (Assistant Dean, SAS), Omar Estrada Torres
(Dean of Students), Jerilyn Marinan (Career Planning), Lorenz Neuwirth
(Psychology).

Call to Order: 12:31 pm

   I. Approval of the Minutes of December 18, 2015
Minutes from the Faculty Senate meeting on December 18, 2015 were accepted
by voice vote without dissent.

  II. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report

    ● The Campus Applied Learning Team, together with TLRC, is organizing
      a series of workshops on the applied learning initiative. The next
      workshop will be right after the Faculty Senate meeting on February 26
      in the Science Building Room S100.
    ● These workshops are designed to familiarize faculty with what
      Applied Learning is, and to discuss how professors can adapt current
      practices to satisfy the criteria for Applied Learning. The campus
      response to the Applied Learning Initiative is a two year process. By
      the end of next spring of 2017, the Faculty is going to decide whether
      to make Applied Learning a graduation requirement for all Old Westbury
      students.
    ● Update on Scantron:  Scantron is a "sole provider", and therefore
      the college may not need to go to bid, as previously asserted by the
      purchasing office. Two other SUNY colleges were able to get the
      Scantron evaluation system without having to call for bids. The issue
      has been turned over to Academic Affairs.
    ● RABC is working on aligning SUNY Excels and our Strategic Plan
    ● The plan for how the Faculty Senate will proceed on the Bylaws
      revisions will be unveiled at the next Faculty Senate meeting on
      February 12

IV.         President’s Report

Unable to attend

V.        Provost’s Report
    ● Provost O’Sullivan distributed the first nine pages of Report on
      Responses to the Student Opinion Survey Spring 2015. The general
      conclusion is that we have improved.
    ● We already have one day of cancelled classes because of the snow.
      Add/Drop has been extended until Wednesday next week because of this.
      Provost O’ Sullivan described the protocol used to d
    ● Discussed several Retention Initiatives: Early warning system,
      expanded tutoring, First in the World Grant, department-specific
      retention studies.
    ● First in the World Grant (joint with five other schools) is a new
      effort to expand the 1st Year Program and to retain students that are
      already here. The First in the World Grant Program aims to use
      undergraduate research as a means to improve retention. It will begin
      with a set of students entering in Fall 2016. Also a second year
      experience program with undergraduate research and increased level of
      advice. Instead of periodic advising, these students will have
      mandatory sessions.
    ● I am working with Dr. Edwards on orientation program, advising
      program and other things we can do to signal the students we want to
      help them to be successful.
    ● We need inform students they need to apply for graduation in order
      to graduate because many of them don’t know it doesn’t come
      automatically.
    ● Minna Barrett is investigating the feasibility of creating a Social
      Justice and Sustainability Center (see below).
    ● I talked to Maureen Dolan about overtaking Quantitative Reasoning
      Across the Campus. It would be structured similar to Writing Across
      the Curriculum which Margaret Torrell did an splendid job.
    ● Shalei Simms, the Assistant of the Vice President for Academic
      Affairs, is coordinating the new catalog. Departments will be asked
      for some information very shortly. I request departments to look at
      the criteria for a minor, because it is antiquated and it is creating
      some issues for various departments. Other campuses are issuing
      certificates, and the Chancellor is promoting the concept of
      certificates.
    ●  Patrick will form a Joint Task Force on Recruitment, Acceptance,
      Registration, and Retention. It will include faculty members. The task
      force will spend a year looking at these issues. One aim is to more
      accurately project enrollment targets in the future.

VI.    Report of the University Faculty Senator (Minna Barrett)

    ● New call for proposals for SUNY Excels perfomance/improvement plans.
      $18 million is available.
    ● There is money for Conversation in the Disciplines. There is also
      money for Social Justice, and our campus fit into that category.
      Campuses who align with the University Centers are the one who gets
      most of the money.
    ● SUNY gives an award for faculty who study academic issues Across the
      Disciplines and try to enlist cooperation in their own campuses and
      across campuses. The award will provide support for a conference, on
      your campus, that discusses the approach to teaching a particular
      topic. For example,  Writing Across the Curriculum, 1st Year
      Experience, Applied Learning, Center for Social Justice and
      Sustainability are possible topics. The application is due April 8.
    ● Governor Cuomo, in his budget, refuses to give maintenance of effort
      for SUNY. Instead, his solution is to renew SUNY 2020. This policy
      asks for rational tuition, makes students pay more, gives SUNY less
      state funding, and results in $800,000 out of our operating budget to
      pay towards tuition gap for students. In short, he is decreasing state
      support and privatizing the institution.
    ● The governor is cutting 485 million off CUNY budget and giving them
      their salary increase. The State University thinks to fight the
      legislation to put that money back.
    ● We need to support the Dream Act. We are under $15.00 minimum wage.
    ● Discussion of Certificates and Badges. Most of the comprehensive
      colleges are generally against certificates and badges idea being
      promoted by the Chancellor, because they undermine the minor programs.
      However,  in some cases certificates/badges may be  appropriate, but
      those decisions should be made after going through our curriculum
      review. Minor recipients are not considered "completers", while those
      receiving certificates are.
    ● The upstate colleges are experiencing enrollment shortfalls.
      Consequently, they are employing recruiters in NYC area. We need to
      make it easier to accept undocumented students and to support them.

VII.    New Business

Center for Social Justice, presented by Minna Barrett

    ● The Provost asked me (Minna Barrett) to help create a Center for
      Social Justice and Sustainability. The aim is to collect the work that
      faculty are doing in social justice and related topics.
    ● I don’t want to do anything as an individual. I want to be able to
      talk about the mechanism we can go thorough for the Center to have
      real institutional standing.

BA in Hispanic and Latin American Cultural Studies, presented by CAP chair
Frank Sanacory

    ● CAP Committee is presented a resolution for the proposal of a new
      bachelors degree in Spanish and Latin American Cultural Studies. The
      CAP committee approved the proposal.
    ● The program was accepted by the Faculty Senate without dissent.

VIII.    Announcements
The Vice Chancellor has issued a call for applications for the Conversation
in the Disciplines Awards. The application can be found at SUNY.edu.

 III. Adjournment at 2:24 pm, January 29, 2016