PRODiG Update: Presented at the Chairs’ Meeting – 10-16-19, Provost Council Meeting – 10-23-19 & sent to Faculty Senate EC – 10-25-19

The SUNY Old Westbury campus made a decision to submit a proposal for the SUNY PRODiG initiative during the Spring 2019 semester.  Our proposal (sent by e-mail on 10-15-19 to the chairs) attempts, as summarized below, to address the following overarching goals:

To establish a formative plan that will help us achieve the inclusive excellence related goals of our current strategic plan, with annual reports on the progress provided to the campus.  This plan will include the work of a campus PRODiG committee.  The current members are identified below.

From the faculty:

Deepa Jani, Assistant Professor, English (untenured)

Manya Mascareno, Chair, Biological Sciences (tenured W-STEM)

Andrew Mattson, Faculty Senate Chair (American Studies, tenured)

Jasmine Mitchell, Assistant Professor, American Studies (untenured URM)

Diana Sukhram, Associate Professor, Exceptional Education (tenured URM)

Lori Zaikowski, Chair, Chemistry & Physics (tenured W-STEM)



From the administration:

Nancy Brown, Dean, School of Education

Lillian Colella, Personnel Associate, Recruitment, Human Resources

Prakasam R. Devasagayam, Dean, School of Business

Jacob Heller, Assistant Vice President for Institutional Research & Assessment 

Barbara Hillery, Dean, School of Arts and Sciences (W-STEM)

Pat Lettini, Associate Vice President for Business Affairs and Controller (affiliate member)

Duncan Quarless, Acting Associate Provost (PRODiG Committee Chair)

Usama Shaikh, Vice President for Student Affairs and Chief Diversity Officer



To refine and codify our faculty hiring and retention activities in ways that will help us to achieve the diversity related goals identified in our strategic plan, which are also consistent with SUNY’s PRODiG initiative.  Some of these actions include:

Developing ads that attract a more diverse applicant pool: (a) avoid where possible narrowly defined expertise within the list of qualifications that are likely to severely limit the applicant pool; (b) provide institutional cues within the ad that leverage the mission, existing diversity of our campus and the department’s commitment to diversity as reflected in professional expectations (e.g., teaching and scholarship);

Using a Process Advocate faculty person within each search to help maintain a level of proactive “consciousness” with respect to promoting diversity within the applicant pool and minimizing potential implicit bias during the search/hiring process. This may take the form of assisting to broaden the outreach within the applicant pool; working with the HR Associate for Recruitment, to monitor the diversity within the applicant pool; making the search committee more cognizant of potential implicit biases.

Being more intentional in our faculty mentoring practice.

Improving the overall campus climate for diversity through related professional development.