Excerpt from the Report of the SUNY Micro-Credentialing Task Force
Definition, Parameters, Taxonomy, Guiding Principles & Recommendations (Abbreviated)

SUNY Micro-Credential Definition:
Micro-credentials verify, validate and attest that specific skills and/or competencies have been achieved
and are endorsed by the issuing institution, having been developed through established faculty governance
processes and designed to be meaningful and high quality.
Parameters:

Micro-credentials may represent the content of credit or noncredit study; they may take the form of digital
badge or micro-award, and can be offered online, on-campus, or a hybrid of both. Micro-credentials may be
specifically recognized by certain industries, in which case they may have the advantage of providing
validation and attestation of industry-specified and frequently highly sought-after competencies. Each
micro-credential awarded must be represented clearly and accurately, addressing associated costs,
financial aid, transferability, and stackability toward a formal award(s).
Taxonomy of Terms:
To provide the SUNY community with a common taxonomy around micro-credentials, a list of definitions
for common micro-credentialing terms is provided as Appendix A of this report. This list may be expanded
or revised over time and will be maintained online at: http://system.suny.edu/academicaffairs/microcredentials.
Guiding Principles:
1. Academic quality is paramount for micro-credentials, and faculty governance participation is required.

2.

Micro-credentials are initiated locally, developed, and approved according to local campus policies and

Nows

w

procedures, consistent with campus mission and strategic goals.

Micro-credentials designed to meet market needs should be informed by current data from
appropriate markets and align with relevant industry/sector standards.
Micro-credentials can provide opportunities for industry/education connections and partnerships.
Micro-credentials are inherently more flexible and innovative.

Micro-credentials should be portable.
Micro-credentials should be stackable.

Recommendations:
1. Development consistent with Task Force Guiding Principles.
2. Develop a process/practices for articulating (stacking) credentials that includes faculty governance.
3.
Partnerships between Continuing Education, Workforce Development, and Academic Affairs will assure
optimum results.

4.

Consider ACE Quality Dimensions for Connected Credentials: transparency, modularity, portability,
relevance, validity, equity. Details on cost, financial aid, learning outcomes, assessments, and
stackability for all micro-credentials.

5.
6.

Use of SUNY Definition of Micro-Credentials & common taxonomy.
Seek support and counsel from liaison in the System Program Review and Planning Office.

7.

System Provost to launch a formal policy review process to address identified barriers/opportunities for

micro-credentials.
SUNY to join advocacy efforts for quality micro-credentials for financial aid; explore System-wide
approach to digital transcripts and portability.
9. Charge FACT2 with development of readiness assessment tools.
10. Define reporting structure in SIRUS so progress can be followed.
8.

Page 1of1