Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Spring 2020 Report
Submitted by Joanne Spadaro
April 24, 2020
I. Membership
The current membership of the Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee consists of four fulltime, tenure-streamed faculty members (three of whom have taught one or more OER courses) the OER
Librarian (tenured), a full-time, tenure-streamed faculty librarian with knowledge of OER, a student
representative designated by the SGA Executive Board, the College’s Instructional Designer, and the OER
liaison for Academic Affairs. Veronika Dolar and Joanne Spadaro serve as co-chairs, and Christa
DeVirgilio is the secretary.
Members
Zulema Cabail
Jennie D’Ambroise
Christa DeVirgilio
Veronika Dolar
Svetlana Jovic
Cheyenne Sze
Ex-Officio Members
Barbara Hillery (non-voting member)
Chandra Shehigian (non-voting member)
Joanne Spadaro (voting member)

Departments
Biology
Math
Library
Politics, Economics & Law
Psychology
Student Government Association
Academic Affairs
Information Technology, Instructional Designer
Library, OER Librarian

II. Activities
Meetings
During spring 2020, the Committee held two face-to-face meetings, and continue to carry out much of
its work online. Three members of the Committee (C. DeVirgilio, B. Hillery, J. Spadaro,) also serve as
Leads for SUNY’s OER funded initiatives on campus and attend regular SUNY OER Services online
meetings.
Three Year Snapshot of OER Courses at Old Westbury
The number of OER courses being offered at SUNY Old Westbury has increased each year since we started
to track these courses in fall 2017.
Academic Year
2019/20
2018/19
2017/18

Course Sections
40 sections
25 sections
14 sections

New OER Course Development Awards – Spring 2020
The Committee approved 6 new OER course development proposals (5 at the adopt development level,
1 at the create development level) from faculty for spring 2020. The amounts of the faculty incentive
stipends awarded were $500 for each course at the adopt level (CP-4, MA-1) and $1500 for one course
at the create level (PE-1). The total amount of the stipends awarded for the 6 courses is $4000.

1|Page

Ad Hoc Open Educational Resources Committee Spring 2020 Report
Registered OER Courses
The Committee also reviews OER course syllabi and course materials (for funded and unfunded courses)
to determine whether they meet SUNY’s requirements to be designated as an OER course and identified
with the OER attribute in the course registration system. A course section is designated as OER if more
than 50% of the assigned course materials is comprised of open educational resources. This designation
is on a semester-by-semester basis, and is at the discretion of the instructors/departments. The
following tables represents the number of courses by departments that were registered in our system
and with SUNY for winter and spring 2020.
Winter 2020
Departments
Courses
IR
1
Spring 2020
Departments
Courses
BU
1
CP
4
HI
1
MA
4
PE
6
PY
5
Sp20 TOTAL
21

Campus Events
Teaching & Learning with Open Educational Resources Faculty Roundtable
On February 25, 2020 the Ad Hoc OER Committee and Teaching and Learning Resources Committee cosponsored a roundtable that featured presentations by SUNY Old Westbury faculty from diverse
disciplines (Math, PEL, Physics, Psychology) on how they teach and students learn with open educational
resources in their courses.
Open Educational Resources (OER) & Creative Commons: An Introduction
On March 5, 2020 J. Spadaro provided a one-hour introductory workshop on open educational
resources and Creative Commons licensing for faculty and staff. The workshop was co-supported by the
Ad Hoc OER Committee and the SUNY Old Westbury Library.
III. Future Planning
Provide webinars/workshops on open educational resources and Creative Commons licensing for faculty.

2|Page