STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday Sept 21, 2018
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location S-100
*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***
Documents for this meeting are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer,
Vice Chair), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS),
Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional),
Amna Kamil (SGA), Taj Ford (SGA), Priscila Ortega (SGA), Laura Anker (FY), Dana Tomlin (Lib.),
Lina Gillic (EE), Jillian Nissen (BS), Deepa Jani (EN), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY),
Chris Hartmann (PH), Lee Blackstone (SY) , Eric Hagan (VA), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi
(FRRC)
Senators Absent: Linval Frazer (AC), Yu Lei (MMF), Lisa Payton (AS), Xavier Marechaux (AE),
Blidi Stemn (CE), Camille Jones (CP), Jingyi Song (HP), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Chris Hobson
(ARPT), Patty Harris (LEC), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Costas Hadjicharalambous (APPC)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Patrick O’Sullivan
(Provost)
Visitors: Bonnie Eannone, Chris Notaro, Jacob Heller, Anthony Barbera, Claudia Marin Andrade,
Fred Fleisher, Helidon Giergji, Lisa Payton, Shalei Simms, Sara Williamson, Duncan Quarless,
Jacob Heller, Richard Cimiro, Jermaine Archer, Shijian Li, Yumi Nicholson, Kaitlin Jones, Cynthia
Anderson
MINUTES

I.

Call to Order 12:40pm

II.

The Chair asks for introductions, since there are many new people in the room. Each
person in the room introduces themselves. Congratulations to the new student senators
who are all in attendance today.

III.

Approval of Minutes of Sept 7, 2018






p. 4 top 2nd line: open access is with regards to “research output”
p. 6 5th hollow bullet: fall 2020 team will not visit, it is the chair
p. 6 solid bullet: insert the word “senate” in front of committees so the context is clear
p. 7: we did not stop admitting students after add/drop, we stopped enrolling
Pending the above changes the minutes are approved by unanimous voice vote.

1

IV.

Point of Order (M. Dolan, Parliamentarian)


V.

Please see handout which is attached below. The handout is a primer on basic rules of
order that facilitates smooth and civil conduct of meetings including speaking order
and resolution procedures including voting.

Special Order of Business (M. Dolan, Parliamentarian)
A. Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee Secretary/Treasurer
 The description of this role is included on the handout attached below.
 There are no nominations.
B. Election of 2018-19 Exec. Committee At-Large Rep.
 The description of this role is included on the handout attached below.
 Dana Tomlin self-nominates for the position. The nomination is seconded.

There are no other nominations; the Parliamentarian closes nominations for AtLarge Representative to EC. Dana is elected unanimously by voice vote.
VI.

FS Chair’s Report


SPAAR Task Force Update: Faculty governance has received a memo from the
President regarding the SPAAR Task Force (attached below), which will create and
charge the Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, & Review Committee (SPAAR)
to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Strategic Plan.
o Action Item: Seven faculty nominees. President’s request: 7 nominees to fill
5 Task Force seats: 3 SAS, 2 SOB, 2 SOE.
o Senators: Are you or a member of your department willing to serve on the
SPAAR Task Force and/or SPAAR Committee?
o To choose these members A. Mattson suggests an online poll for the senate. Or
should the Executive Committee choose these people? The SPAAR Task Force
should finish its work by the end of this year, so it is a one-semester
commitment. The Chair asks for nominations and commenting on voting. Note
that the SPAAR Task Force is not just faculty, it contains other members, but
here we are referring to just the faculty representatives. Faculty comments that
if we value governance then why do we hesitate to fill these roles? These roles
are important. They need to be filled. Our mission is justice. A. Mattson will put
names together by Tuesday. Faculty suggest that a mix of junior and senior
faculty should be involved for the task force. The ongoing SPAAR committee
will eventually need to be incorporated into the bylaws. The SPAAR task force is
2

creating the structure and the mechanism by which the members for the SPAAR
committee will be picked. They will not pick the members themselves just
outline the process. Faculty from Albania comments that he grew up in a
dictatorship. In communism everyone agrees and there is 100% agreement.
We need to disagree. For the SPAAR Task Force Senators should go back to
their departments. Notice that student representation will be included in the
SPAAR committee at a later point in the process, although students are not on
the Task Force. Please send names to A. Mattson by Tuesday.


Request to Change Senate Meeting Time: Proposal: Change time to 2:004:00PM.
o “the current Faculty Senate and Full Faculty Senate meeting times conflicts
with Friday afternoon prayer time (1pm - 2pm approximately) for Muslim
faculty and staff members. As you may also know, Friday afternoon prayers
are the equivalent of Saturday services for Jews and Sunday services for
Christians. This results in effectively having Muslim colleagues unable to
participate in a key meeting that is part of our shared governance mission
and is counter to our social justice ideals.”
o Faculty suggests that morning FS meetings should not be taken off the table,
even though A. Mattson had initially omitted it to consider. Yes, morning
meetings may conflict with department meetings and other meetings but the
senate is a larger body than departments. This could be resolved by
departments. Meetings later in the day are also problematic because in the
Jewish faith they must be in by sundown times. For this consideration meetings
would have to end by 2:30pm.



Committee Vacancies: The Faculty Senate Chair fills committee vacancies that
remain unfilled after the election.
o CAP: One Vacancy: Any SAS department except AS, CP, MA, PY, PE.

FS

chair will contact PEL runner-up if needed (already one PEL on CAP.)
o FUAC: Three Vacancies. FS chair is contacting eligible faculty.
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)
FUAC (Stand.)

Distinguished Service
Professor
Distinguished Teaching
Professor
Prof. or Assoc. Prof. 10+ yrs
(1 of 3)
Prof. or Assoc. Prof. 10+ yrs
(2 of 3)
Prof. or Assoc. Prof. 10+ yrs
(3 of 3)

????
????
McLaughlin, Patricia

2020

Kim Myong-Hi

2020

????

o LEC: One Vacancy Remains:


Humanities Domain Representative Needed: Faculty Senate Chair is
contacting humanities departments for nominations for one-year
appointment: AS, EL, HI, VA, ML.
3

o SLC: Vacancy filled by the appointment of runner-up Jasmine Mitchell (AS)
VII.

President’s Report
 The President cannot be here today.

VIII. Provost’s Report
 D. Quarless reports that the new student evaluation forms called Blue will go out this
semester. It will be ready for half-semester courses in SOB. It is a more seamless
implementation and there are less bugs. There is more technical support. It is more
user-friendly. Certain roles such as school deans and department heads will be able to
get reports within their specific domains/departments.
 In Fall 2017 we had 49 AL courses with 82 sections and thus 946 students had AL
experiences. In the spring this number of courses has steadily increased. There is a
faculty study group in order to count the number of non-credit bearing AL experiences,
which is currently uncaptured. We are looking to put together a grant to the
Performance Investment Fund (PIF) but first we need a performance improvement plan.
 See the OER handout attached below.
 See the SUNY Policies and Procedures and Awards handouts. The awards for faculty are
for 5+ years. Please consider whether there are potential candidates. FUAC should
make an announcement as to other awards soon. Full time includes faculty, librarian,
teaching and scholarly activities. At the end of the packet there is info on the center for
professional development where there are scholarship activities such as grant writing
and copyrighting in today’s academic world. Out of the PIF there is the SUNY clean
energy workforce program. There is a request for proposals. We are eligible for track 1.
Some applied learning falls under this category. This could be creating new courses
related to energy. In the program guidelines there is a bullet point saying the rewarding
institutions will be required to license to the public under creative commons. This is an
OER requirement. See the document handed out for the full announcement.
 J. Heller reports that middle states requires us to do institutional assessment. In the
past we did it incompletely but we need to do more this year. Some reports are due Oct
15. The non-academic functions of academic departments will not be assessed
currently but they will be assessed in the future. We need to include this later. Every
department has a 5-yr review that goes to the CAP committee. These reports are rushed
in one year typically to report on the whole five years. J. Heller proposes that
department chairs tell him what kind of data they would like to have, such as enrollment
data. Departments need to say what they want to achieve and whether they achieved
their goals. If goals change this is ok. It is just the reporting part which is now required.
We can thus see from the reports whether plans worked and how plans change over
time. Nonacademic activities of departments includes advising and hiring and keeping
track of majors and grad rates / attrition rates. Everything other than a students’
learning outcome is a non-academic activity. Typical goals could be a mentoring
program for faculty (and J. Heller can help with faculty surveys), or student club
activities.
 The Provost points to the handed out Strategic Plan document. On p. 9 there are goals
with objectives underneath each goal. Under student success we have a new student
success center and EAB for improving grad rates and retention and time to degree. See
report as these things are captured there. On p. 10 there is a further expansion of the
4












IX.

goals and rationale and the strategies. This provides guidance to faculty and
administration. As Senators your department should allow you 5 minutes to report
back to your department. If you need additional copies it is online, just search for the
Old Westbury Strategic Plan and you will see the SP including the 100 page
implementation plan. If you are considering the SPAAR Task Force then you should look
at this since this is the document you will be working with.
There are impediments to completion such as grade requirements requiring students to
retake classes. Look at the curriculum and see what we are requiring of students and
ask whether this is slowing students down. Please share this with your colleagues.
Please read the article handed out at the meeting “How One Email From You Could Help
Students Succeed”.
Curriculum development sometimes means new degrees, but some degrees have builtin problems. There is an article from EAB (Educational Advisory Board) about four
design choices undermining new program success. Please read the article handed out.
The Provost emphasizes professional responsibility of service in addition to teaching
and research. It can be quite burdensome. The Provost advises many faculty that they
put in too much time to service. Some faculty are engaged all the time. In the
promotion and tenure process, and in reappointment, service will be assessed in
academic affairs so that there is a return from the effort that is made. The sell of service
cannot be empty. It is not just the number of committees you sit on, it is the quality of
your engagement. Senior faculty have a real responsibility to the sustainment of the
college. Make an appeal to your departments that service is important and we will
evaluate and assess that.
The Provost reports on enrollment numbers. The importance of enrollment is that it is
a continued investment. It is not as simple as just stopping at 5,000 students, we have to
look at year-after year growth which is about 2.5%. Thanks to the FYE program who
took in many freshman, the largest ever. We have the largest enrollment we have ever
had. Including transfers, enrollment over the summer is over 1500.
The Provost reports that enrollment is important because of the budget. We look at the
numbers of freshman, transfers, returning students, and grad students. In budget
allocation the money is given different weight for each departments. We get more
money for upper level students, and we get more money for certain departments. This
may be fair or unfair but it is the process. For budget reasons composition of our
students is important. We don’t know the budget since we need the census data first,
then after that we will verify revenue.
Faculty comments that service is required, but it is more than just showing up. The
quality is important. The first-year faculty should start being engaged within the
department first. We need to be more involved with governance. We need to pay
attention.

Old Business
A.

Enrollments & First Year Experience (L. Anker)
 See handout with enrollment numbers. Enrollment is up by about 50% over two
years. This is an enormous increase and we planned accordingly including
increasing number of sections. We are working with student affairs and academic
affairs. In the future we will continue to better plans. There is also a great AL
course that embeds the mission of justice into the first-year experience. We filled
lecturer positions and we increased advising. We surveyed students for majors and
5

learning communities including general education courses and introductions to
majors. The learning communities help students to choose focus. It is important to
talk with students. You should consider coming to our first year reading program.
We would love to have faculty to assist us with orientation. This is more involved
than academic advising and is rewarding and also includes pay for advisors. We
have maintained our retention rate at 80% from last year and it hasn’t gone down
this year. Faculty commends FYE for their work. Faculty comments that it is
amazing that the cap on class size increased by 50% and we need to think about the
mission of the program. FYE needs more faculty to teach a 2 credit class. We need
more faculty to teach FY1000 which is the most writing intensive course. It is a
demanding course. It is 2-3 pages per student every week, and 3 formal pages, and
up to 15 more pages. This is up to 45 pages. It is demanding on students and
professors. We agreed to accommodate extra students for this year only, but the
caps will be decreased back down again later. We obtained additional support and
we need even more support from academic affairs.
B.

Student Success Center updates (C. Notaro)
 This item is deferred to the full faculty meeting.
 C. Notaro announces that the early alert initiative will be starting next week. This
includes many faculty members so please watch out for that email. It is a simple
process through the EAB system where you indicate who is in trouble in your class.
They will reach out to students based on what faculty submits. As soon as faculty
submit the info about students, advisors reach out.

X.

New Business
A. Shared Governance Orientation Resolution (J. Crocker)
 P. Ikeler, sponsoring faculty of the resolution, comments that this is important for
new faculty to understand the roles of faculty senate. This resolution does not
accomplish that completely, but it is a start. Everyone is encouraged to participate,
it is not just for new faculty. This is an attempt at community building. Faculty asks
whether TLRC has this under their charge such as quality of life and practices. This
is important. J. Crocker comments that FRRC presents the bylaws to full faculty
including the inverted pyramid. This orientation is not a substitute for that
presentation outlined in the bylaws, it is a complement. TLRC does not have quality
of life in their charge, that is the old version of the bylaws. TLRC does the best they
can but they cannot address everything. This is beyond the scope of TLRC and it is
not a TLRC responsibility. The first senate meeting of the year could be the
orientation. Faculty comments additional support for the resolution. The senators
should take back to their departments the message that governance is important.
To be effective faculty, the more we know the better. This orientation should be a
focused session to provide information. Before 2010 we had a college-wide
orientation cosponsored by many participants across the campus. The
Parliamentarian states that the first and third Fridays of the month is in the bylaws
for the dates of the senate meetings. An additional meeting to accommodate the
orientation would not be popular. Let’s use the meetings we have already
scheduled.
 Debate is closed by unanimous voice vote.
 The resolution is approved by unanimous voice vote.
6

XI.

Announcements
 Regarding moving the senate time, we should accommodate many religious
services. Faculty comments that we should take into a wider range than just one
member. Perhaps a survey to gauge more voices. Many committee meetings occur
on mornings in order to accommodate these afternoon meetings. It is suggested to
do a survey instead of a discussion. Do the prayer times depend on standard or
daylight savings times? The email stated a single time without referencing daylight
savings. L. Anker comments that in other areas such as classes, students who
needed to pray off campus require extra time to commute. Now we have an oncampus place to pray, so there could be another way to accommodate. It is
important both for classes and for our meetings. We need to gather more
information. Faculty comments that the majority should not be voting on the
prayer times of the minority members. If it is a survey we should be including all
faculty and it should be voting to gather information only. We vote to represent our
constituencies. Remember that we vote to represent others. Faculty suggests if
certain folks can research this issue and come up with a proposal in order to
process the information gathered. Department senators should also poll their
departments. Please don’t wait for your department meetings. We need to address
this at the next senate meeting. The Chair and EC should speak to the person who
emailed and get more information. We can speak to our departments too. P. Ikeler
volunteers to help the EC to look into the issue. Faculty comments that many other
groups such as mothers etc. may be affected by moving a time.

XI.

Announcements
 The Coming a novel is a fictionalized vision about the middle passage, by Daniel
Black. He will be on campus Oct 10 speaking to whole freshman class in the gym. It
will be a big event and there is room for other people. Let us know if you want to
bring your classes. The talk is at 7pm.
 M. Dolan will be in touch with folks about the Green Committee.

XII.

Adjournment 2:32pm

7