Initial Faculty Input To Hanover Academic Research Projects (Preview) Microsoft Forms

2/1/22, 6:40 PM

Initial Faculty Input To Hanover
Academic Research Projects
Hanover is a research company hired by our campus to investigate research projects
formulated by key stakeholders on campus. The faculty will define and drive the academic
research projects. Faculty should give feedback to formulate the projects topics, and the
project research questions -- initial drafts are provided below.
The current working title for the academic research projects is
"Niche Opportunities for Expanding Enrollment".
After faculty feedback is collected below, the Executive Committee (EC) will compile and
summarize the results. The EC will coordinate with Hanover, and they will provide us with
survey templates and research questions that fit the projects and questions outlined below.
Faculty will again have an opportunity to provide feedback before the research projects
begin. (Stay tuned!)
Note: Hanover research projects will be executed in sequence. The order presented below
is the order proposed by the Executive Committee. The total length of the Hanover contract
is 3 years (2021-2024). Each individual project would span a number of weeks depending on
the complexity of the project.
Responses are due by Friday Feb 4th.

* Required

Project A: "Targeting Adult Learners within our Mission
Distinctiveness"
Description:
https://forms.office.com/Pages/DesignPage.aspx?lang=en-US&orig…DcL_aXaEqVKxHmXI4twGvtcRUQ1lWMlZKTTdZVDFER1dIWjlETEpKVVBNTy4u

Page 1 of 6

Initial Faculty Input To Hanover Academic Research Projects (Preview) Microsoft Forms

2/1/22, 6:40 PM

Within our program offerings are there particular ones that are likely to draw greater interest
from adult learners?
What scheduling factors would contribute to greater interest in our program offerings by adult
learners?
To what program packaging options, such as stackables (micro-credentials, certificates) etc.,
are adult learners attracted?
Is there a market for continuing education packaged for completion during summers, winters,
evenings, and weekends?
What are the workplace trends where adult learners may experience job changes or need
retraining that may present us with enrollment opportunities?
What kinds of programs and certifications are adult learners seeking? Is there an advantage
to having day-long weekend programs for example? Or other?
What kinds of competency or skill-based training programs are local businesses interested in
investing in? For example, financial literacy, quantitative literacy, leadership development,
critical thinking and decision-making under uncertainty.

1. Do you have additional ideas or issues that should be investigated related to
this specific project? *

https://forms.office.com/Pages/DesignPage.aspx?lang=en-US&orig…DcL_aXaEqVKxHmXI4twGvtcRUQ1lWMlZKTTdZVDFER1dIWjlETEpKVVBNTy4u

Page 2 of 6

Initial Faculty Input To Hanover Academic Research Projects (Preview) Microsoft Forms

2/1/22, 6:40 PM

Project B: "Modality Demand Distinctions"
Description:
What data exists to gather student preferences, and their reasons, for taking classes online
versus remote versus in-person?
Do we have programs that are better served by online degree options, or that are better
served by in-person options?
What are the online/technology-related supports that students are looking for to optimize
their enrollment and participation? Same for in-person?
Do our modality offerings complement other campuses in order to encourage cross
enrollment?
Similarly do our summer and winter courses encourage enrollment from other campuses?
What modalities and support services facilitate the academic performance of students from
disadvantaged backgrounds?

2. Do you have additional ideas or issues that should be investigated related to
this specific project? *

https://forms.office.com/Pages/DesignPage.aspx?lang=en-US&orig…DcL_aXaEqVKxHmXI4twGvtcRUQ1lWMlZKTTdZVDFER1dIWjlETEpKVVBNTy4u

Page 3 of 6

Initial Faculty Input To Hanover Academic Research Projects (Preview) Microsoft Forms

2/1/22, 6:40 PM

Project C: "Mission-distinctiveness within the Marketplace"

Description:
Are we mission-distinctive within the marketplace demand?
How can we more effectively craft our recruitment materials and outreach efforts to the
growing new diverse and immigrant populations in the immediate region around Old
Westbury?
How do we make our mission distinctive strength marketable to attract enrollment?
Are there new ways to engage local guidance counselors to effectively promote our mission
and strengths as an institution?
Do potential students understand and value our distinctive mission?
Do potential students understand and value our academic programs?
Are there new ways to engage with local high schools to create bridge programs into our
institution? How can we create a better pipeline?
How do we connect the marketing of our existing programmatic strengths to our mission in a
way that is responsive to the needs of potential students?
What is the best way to communicate our programmatic strengths to potential students to
attract enrollment?
What areas of study are potential students attracted to, and do they know their areas of study
before they enroll? Does this differ based on status such as non-traditional, transfer, first
generation, etc.?
What other areas attract students? Identity and values? Specific areas of study? Practical
experiences available? Graduation rates? Average salaries?

https://forms.office.com/Pages/DesignPage.aspx?lang=en-US&orig…DcL_aXaEqVKxHmXI4twGvtcRUQ1lWMlZKTTdZVDFER1dIWjlETEpKVVBNTy4u

Page 4 of 6

Initial Faculty Input To Hanover Academic Research Projects (Preview) Microsoft Forms

2/1/22, 6:40 PM

3. Do you have additional ideas or issues that should be investigated related to
this specific project? *

https://forms.office.com/Pages/DesignPage.aspx?lang=en-US&orig…DcL_aXaEqVKxHmXI4twGvtcRUQ1lWMlZKTTdZVDFER1dIWjlETEpKVVBNTy4u

Page 5 of 6

Initial Faculty Input To Hanover Academic Research Projects (Preview) Microsoft Forms

2/1/22, 6:40 PM

Thank you for your feedback!
4. Are there other issues that we should be investigating or looking for data
related to increasing the scope of our enrollment and academic program
offerings? *

2/1/2022

This content is neither created nor endorsed by Microsoft. The data you submit will be sent to the form owner.

Microsoft Forms

https://forms.office.com/Pages/DesignPage.aspx?lang=en-US&orig…DcL_aXaEqVKxHmXI4twGvtcRUQ1lWMlZKTTdZVDFER1dIWjlETEpKVVBNTy4u

Page 6 of 6