STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

SPECIAL MEETING of the Faculty Senate and Full Faculty

Monday August 10, 2020

1:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

Location: Zoom

Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Roster of Senators Present: 

Non-Voting Members of the Senate: 

Visitors: 

Roster of Senators Absent: 





MINUTES 



AGENDA

0. Zoom Room Open: Tech check, Say hello on chat on arrival. 12:15 p.m.

I. Call to Order 12:30 p.m.

II. Presidential Search Update - College Council Chair Mili Makhijani 

Welcomes Mike and Thanks Andy for all his communication efforts

Believes she was hired because they needed somebody that would come in and get to know the campus very quickly get to know the players very quickly and kick off this presidential search in a fair and efficient manner.

The process has been positive and successful up to this point

Started the process with 150 candidates 

Narrowed it down to 12 applicants, that we would meet in person, and those are called mutual site interviews.

Now, normally, those neutral site interviews would be done with the entire search committee staying at a hotel for a three day period, each day you are stuck in a conference room, for 75 minutes with each candidate.. But given the nature of  COVID we have had to do everything virtually.

We were not the first campus to do this, we had a model to follow. Out of the 12 we had a tough time choosing 5 because the candidate pool was so strong.

This week, as we speak, we are conducting what's called the campus representational interviews where each candidate spends an entire day with various constituency groups.

After that, next week there will be a very big meeting with details that must remain confidential 

Finalists names are then sent over to Albany and the will then have their Albany interviews and presentations, we are very much on target for a September appointment!

Confidentiality is crucial so the rest of the details must be kept quiet. Encouraging search committee members to continue to honor confidentiality.

 

III. Chair’s Introduction - Michael Kavic     

Purpose of the meeting: getting faculty as much good information as possible to be prepared for the fall.

Once the restart plan was published and was in place, I wanted to get give all of you an opportunity to get that information and ask questions about that plan to give you as much lead time so that when you go into the classroom in the fall, virtually, in most cases, that you're going to feel prepared and supported.

Introduction was simply explaining how the meeting will run. 

Questions will 



IV. Teaching in the Fall 							

Remote Instruction

There's a one off instance where we need to meet with a student on campus. What should we do since our offices are not built for social distancing? Try to make sure this does not happen; I would suggest that faculty in those instances make contact with their Dean's their respective Dean's and or the Office of Academic Affairs. But for the present time, I would suggest that all office our activity be virtual unless there is an extremely compelling reason.

Last semester students with Bursar holds who didn't have computers at home could drop into a computer lab on campus. Is this still going to be possible? What we have said in the plan is that our facility is largely closed. We haven't identified any other contingency that would require students to come and make use of the computer lab facility. Although plan could be changed if the need arose.

Where can we advise students to go if their power and internet is out, for instance, what happened last week with the storm? So what advice can we give to students in that situation? that we did create sort of soft phone solutions for students and others who may want to call various offices. So if such happened, and they called for instance, academic affairs or the respective departments we have one of our office staff answering such phone calls.



Facility Dependent Instruction 

How is the use of classrooms being designated? What are the circumstances under which they're used, and how is this being organized? There are about 50 facility dependent courses. hose areas are largely the art studio. The Natural Science building where the laboratories are and a couple of our media centers Here on the campus, the media Innovation Center. They're going to be handled with staggered scheduling that's substantially reduces the student density. And PPE available to those departments and faculty 

Are the withdrawal or incomplete deadlines different for the new academic year? We have not attempted to do anything with that.

When will we know about zoom licenses? We've made a request for funding for zoom licenses, in our Cares Act requests out of Academic Affairs. Duncan Quarless has been working with our CIO, he thinks we're close to a solution on this. We have actually a quote From a zoom representative that's actually part of the SUNY wide process concerning zoom.



V. Health Safety & Cleaning 		

            A. Classroom Sanitation, Ventilation & Distancing 

What are what are the extra facilities that are going to be made available for sanitation? If any. No, with the limitation on courses being held on campus and the ability to work from home to be extended so we see no reason for any additional resources to be provided.

lab cleaning between sessions. How much time is the college determined to be sufficient? Will the custodial staff assist laboratory staff in the natural Science Building. Yes, the Provost has established the schedule. I'm not sure it's the final schedule yet. But that's been provided to us. In addition, there are monitors in,the science building, who will let us know what cleaning needs to be done. We cannot clean the entire campus with the staff that we have, to the standards that you will require, but with a limited use of space, we are going to be able to use our own staff to clean.

One of the real primary concerns is transmission through the air if there have been any kind of adaptations related to ventilation? It's my understanding, First that we have multiple kinds of Hvac systems on campus, we are required to go to the lowest bidder. So we've got six different manufacturers on campus. Each of those systems can handle only so much in a way of filters. My understanding is that we have ensured that we have the maximum filter that the particular system will handle.

Screening, Testing & Tracing

I know that we have a limited population on campus. But what if we have a report that a student test positive? What are we doing for screening? We're screening at the front gate right now. We are looking at a device, thermal imaging device that will be placed at the front gate, which will be able to take temperatures remotely even from automobiles, and even in the winter. There will also be free COVID testing on campus. 

We've been assured by a Department of Health that there were equipped to handle all the tracing. If someone falls ill they will be immediately sent home. If medical attention becomes an emergency, transportation will be arranged.

In addition to Governor Cuomo putting New York on pause again, what will determine the decision to eliminate on campus instruction and or use of on campus Facilities by the student. Right now we will parallel whatever the governors guidance is.

Can UV disinfection handwash be provided for the science labs? No

UUP Concerns- Martha Livingston

We initially in June had asked for a joint labor management Task Force on the health and safety concerns that we have. Bill Kimmins suggested meeting him on an as needed basis and we have done so.

Most concerns about campus safety are solved by simply not coming to campus however for many members of UUP as well as CSEA, this is simply not going to be the case. So how do we control the amount of infection that walks or drives on campus? This red light green light mechanism is one way but you up statewide feels as though we really need to be doing testing. This is extremely expensive.

Touched on campus shuttle busses and its safety as well as rules regarding riding the bus. 

Administrative control How PPE reaches the employees is a big issue, Elevators and social distancing. We have been short on cleaners for years and now the demand has been deemed greater. Sign in sheets for the cleaners in the rest rooms. Water fountains should be removed.



VI.  Financial Implications and Budget

Employment 

Will there be furloughs for adjunct faculty? The plan addressed the financial aspect of COVID 19. Pretty much.

Part of our cost containment strategy has been to postpone replacement of certain faculty hiring.

Enrollment 

We have to come up with some cost reduction strategies. We have to look at, for instance, how Cares monies may be used to help address some of what our needs are. In the spring we may see an uptick in enrollment which may mean more revenue. We have to just be prepared. Reducing budgeted money in areas such as faculty professional development will help to minimize the burden the low enrollment has placed on the school. 

VII. Support and Development Activities 



Faculty and Student Tech Security  & Support 

The library physical space will remain closed in the fall

We are offering library instruction classes virtually as well as virtual reference hours. I will let you know that all the librarians are able to meet with you Students on a virtual basis they can schedule one on one appointments with them.

We also joined a coop with other SUNY’s and with other schools throughout the United States, where the students will have 24/7 access to a reference librarian.

Will there be assistance for adjunct professors who may need to upgrade their computers? We included a request for computer materials in our cares act request. The service desk, I know is available and has sort of made an allowance for pushing drivers and software to laptops remotely.

Will students particularly incoming freshmen be taught the basics of Blackboard before they are expected to join their professors online using the blackboard platform? Whatever inventory we have of laptops right now they're all earmark for student use. If that need is fulfilled, then we'll make devices available for faculty. And then for adjuncts. So the priority is students full time faculty, and then adjunct assuming that we have availability for Blackboard instruction, all students are able to participate in the blackboard training courses which are are scheduled for the semester before the beginning of the semester during the first two weeks.

Is there an emergency procedure for when we're trying to get online or are in the middle of a class? There is a chat capability with the service desk between the hours of 8:30am to 5pm to faculty and staff.

Can zoom be built into Blackboard? Short answer; Yes

How are the students who need these IT devices identified? Service desk is the contact point where there is a vetting process that leads to the disbursement of devices.

Students who are on financial aid and receiving traditional book vouchers can use those vouchers at the store at the campus bookstore for technology issues. So they could put it towards a laptop, for instance, from the campus bookstore.

What about internet access? Students and Faculty will pretty much have to figure out how to access it if they are not on campus.

So what are the things IT you provide that maybe faculty aren't aware of? Technical support to personal devices for students and faculty remotely and identify resources if something is broken.

Will housing be made available to our homeless students? They are working with a third party vendor that will offer support to this population of students



Academic Support

How well can we meet the needs of the OSSD students, especially those taking remote online classes? There will be a zoom session for faculty next Monday at 2pm. It will be going over how to provide accommodations best in a virtual environment for OSSDstudents and you can ask specific questions. I'll also send an email to faculty addressing specifically issues and include an FAQ on the OSSD webpage.

Psychological and Physical Health

What will be available for students in terms of psychiatric care and also telehealth services? Student Health Center has remained open throughout this whole pandemic and we are open during the summer and in June we resumed in person appointments. So we will resume our regular hours of operation In the fall, which are Monday through Friday, Monday and Tuesday until 7pm, and Wednesday through Friday until five, we are available to see students in person because certain examinations require in person appointments. It's difficult to do it over telehealth. If they're not available to come to campus or would prefer a telehealth appointment. Counseling Center open Monday to Friday nine to five. And we continue to provide psychotherapy, therapy and psychiatric care to all students.

Is there any access for students that want to use campus facilities? They will get to use whatever space is available but choices will be limited

So I guess it's a question about what's the status of the campus? Is it open or closed? We are open yes. We are open but delivering instruction remotely.



VIII. Preparedness in the event of re-emergence 

For instance, the flu season comes, the infection rates go much higher. What can we expect? There's got to be contingency ready Should there be the need to suspend all face to face on campus instruction depending upon conditions on the ground at whatever they are at the time. We have typically said in our plan really has to do with sort of dealing with the emergency as it arises. Facility dependent courses will be a priority in planning.

IX. Communication & Education 

Critical updates will come from those who have to provide them. Officer in charge will dictate how things go.

Perhaps asking the faculty to suggest to students that they go into the portal and sign up for the emergency messaging system.

X Announcement 

SGA is working with the College Foundation to put money towards book vouchers, and scholarships. So that's what we're working on at the moment. One more thing, we're trying to work on an SGA chat box.

Zoom meeting was left active for anyone else who wanted to speak informally.