STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, October 9, 202012:30 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes



Roster of Senators Present: ​Mike Kavic (chair), Dana Sinclair (secretary/treasurer),

Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), : Laurette Morris (University Senator) John Estes (AtLarge Rep to the EC), Runi Mukerhji (At Large Rep to the EC) Bonnie Eannone(professional), Khalif Mettilus( SGA), Laure Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At Large), ,Blindi Stemm (CE), Camile Jones (CP),),Lee Blackstone (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), AlirezaEbrahimi (FRRC), Edislav Manetovic (LEC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Chris Hagan(TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Erin Toolis (PY), Shijian Li (PH), Do Young Park(Math & CIS), Chelsea Shields-Mas (HP), Patty Harris (LE), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP),Non-Voting Members of the Senate: ​Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Barbara Hillery(AA), Raj Devasagayam (Dean, SOB)



Visitors: ​Jacob Heller, Patrick Cadet, Carol Quirke, Martha Livingston, Len Davis, DoyoungPark, Ana Martinez, Khalefa Mohamed, Dinorah Martinez, Danielle Collins, ChristosNoutsos, Deepa Jani, Curtis Holland, Claidia Marin Andrade, Better Barberi, Kinning Poon,Catherine Bernard, Cris Notato, Anthony Barbera, Eric Benau, Lisa Payton, Jingyi Song,Patrick O’Brian, Danielle Lee, Ozgur Akgun, Rachel Kalish, Kathleen Veslor, Lisa Chin, DianaPapademas, Ashok Basawapatna, Lorenz Neuwirth, Lisa Whitten, Sara Williamson,Solomon Chak, Shlee Lien, Shalei Simms, Fred Millan, Renu Balyan, Evan Kobolakis



Roster of Senators Absent​: Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Kathleen Velsor, Lisa Payton(AE), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC),Roger Mayer (AC), Jani, Deepa (EN), Barber, Llana (AS), Noustos, Christos(BS)



I. Call to Order12:30



II. Approval of Minutes for Sept 11, 2020 5 minutes (12:35)

Minutes approved as amended 



III. Chair’s Report 10 minutes (12:45)

Commends the faculty for a job well done so far this semester.

The Executive committee has been busy meeting with academic affairs and the provost to address the budget crisis

Working on ways to revive the RABCP a budget committee that is in our bylaws but has not been functional for quite some time.

There is not on campus testing for the Coronavirus to aid facility dependent course. Students have raised concerns regarding this.

Encourages faculty to nominate themselves or someone else for the faculty showcase. Supporting each other is important!

ARPT Interfolio is on its way to being finished and faculty feedback is necessary for success.

Faculty governance committee chair meeting will happen soon.



IV. Provost’s Report 15 minutes (1:00)

Made some acknowledgement of progression: Chris Notaro and Barbara Hillery for a federal grant with a face value of 1.3 million dollars. Also, Fernando Nieto and Patrick Cadet as well as their directors Patricia Rockinova and Monique Clark for the Step and C step awards  2.2 million dollars each.

Anthony Barbera on Middle States: Team chairs visit originally scheduled for November 18th is now scheduled for December 2nd. All working group members expect an invitation.

Duncan thanks faculty for dealing with the early alerts on Navigate to promote student success.

Please get all alerts in by October 17, 2020, midterm week, if possible the 14th

Concerns with Coronavirus testing email studenthealth@oldwestbury.edu or 516-876-3250

Campaign for Panther Peer to Peer will begin October 15 until December 10th



V.UUP report 5 minutes (1:05)

Telecommuting agreement with SUNY extended till the end of the year. Generally impacts professional members and not academic.

Newsletter coming out soon. Photospread of UUP masks. Send photos!

Budget report: UUP will fight back. Millionaire tax and stock transfer tax, budget problems would be solved

Coronavirus swab test was chosen for budgetary reasons

Health and Safety task force has been working jointly with CSEA and other unions. There is a similar task force in administration and UUP would like to partner with them.

We should have gotten a base increase on September 1st of 2%, the earliest we will see this money could be January 1st. UUP is in court as we speak.

Memorandum from SUNY, pre tenured faculty getting an extra year to complete a strong tenure file. One can opt out but everyone is entitled to the extra year.

Addressing the fact that many adjuncts are teaching classes without getting a formal offer letter from administration. UUP is working to have this fixed.



VI. Confirmation of Senate At-Large Members to the EC status 5 minutes (1:10)

A resolution was brought to expand the EC to accommodate 2 at large members

Unanimous consent was given to accept the extension of the EC 



VII. Resolution in Support of Increased Communication and Transparency from IT 15 minutes (1:25)

Resolution brought from the psychology department senator and was seconded to open it up for discussion.

Three overarching themes. 1. Coverage needed for off hours 2. more timely updates and reminders about changes to it protocol or software updates 3. And over all better communication from I, tickets taking too long to be addressed.

Looking for prioritized channel for faculty to get the help that they need.

Evan Kobulakis gave a detailed response to the issues brought on by the resolution and a constructive conversation followed.

Resolution was accepted, passed and approved by unanimous consent 



VIII. Anti-racism initiative 10 minutes (1:35)

Working in response to the faculty senate resolution last June 

Considering formalizing the work around addressing racism and anti blackness on campus with an ad hoc committee in response to that June resolution.

There are also other faculty initiatives others are working on this semester including a faculty research seminar

They believe a committee supported or authorized by the faculty senate is the best way to have the broadest reach.





IX. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements 10 minutes (1:45)

TLRC will have their first roundtable discussion coming up Wednesday, October 21 2:30 to 3:50. Flyer will be available soon. But our topic is discussing difficult topics navigating politics in the classroom



X. Adjournment