FACULTY SENATE
TO:

All Full-time Voting Faculty

FROM:

Bylaws Working Group, Faculty Rights & Responsibilities Committee
Alireza Ebrahimi, Chair

DATE:

November 20, 2019

SUBJ:

Ballot on Adoption of Revised ARPT Manual

Enclosed is the ballot to be used in casting your vote, in regards to amending the Faculty Bylaws Appendix III.
You are voting whether to adopt the Revised Manual on Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure.
Faculty Bylaws are the collective responsibility of the faculty. Under SUNY Board of Trustees Policies, Article X,
faculty on each campus are empowered to “prepare and adopt” their own bylaws, through which faculty governance
is organized and operates. Although our Faculty Bylaws undergo period five-year review, Bylaws Appendices are
not subject to period review but amended as needed. The ARPT Manual, Appendix III, was last revised in 2003.
Since consideration of revisions to bylaws is official business of the Faculty; a quorum of eligible faculty (50% + 1)
is required for the vote to be valid. Amending the Bylaws and Appendices requires approval by 2/3 of those voting.
If the vote to adopt is approved, the revised ARPT Manual will become effective for Spring 2020. Faculty already
hired on tenure track, at their option, may continue to use the 2003 ARPT Manual through the time of their review
for Tenure/Promotion to Associate Professor – with the additional option to switch from the 2003 to revised (2109)
Manual at any time up to and including their review for Tenure/Promotion to Associate Professor. If adopted, the
Manual will undergo final proof reading, with removal of the term “draft”, and removal of the footnotes labeled
“EXPLANATION”. Footnotes without this designation are part of the text of [revised] Manual and will remain.
The Draft Revised ARPT Manual has been widely disseminated, electronically and print copies, including side-byside comparison of the draft revised and current manual. Following acceptance of the Draft Revised ARPT Manual
by Faculty Senate (5/17/19), the final vetting of proposed revisions was referred to the Bylaws Working Group.
Town Hall meetings were held (Wednesday, October 30th and Thursday, November 7th) to raise awareness and
obtain additional feedback from faculty. Please note that print copies of the Draft Revised ARPT Manual are
available in the Faculty Senate Office, NAB 2040. Additional information may be found on Faculty Senate website.
You may also find summary background information in the following attachments:
• What to Look for in the Draft Revised ARPT Manual
• Resolution on Revised Manual for Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure (approved as
amended by Faculty Senate on May 17, 2019).
VOTING INSTRUCTIONS:
• Indicate your vote with an X in desired box. Possible votes are YES, NO, ABSTAIN.
• Place your completed ballot, unsigned and folded, into the envelope marked Secret Ballot.
• Then place the Secret Ballot envelope inside the control envelope and seal. Finally, sign your name in
space provided for signature.

Completed Ballots must be received in the Faculty Senate Office, NAB 2040,
No later than Tuesday, December 10th at 4:00pm.