MARCH 4, 2005
State University of New York College at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting
(Postponed from February 25, 2005)
Present:
Executive Committee:
C. Sawyer.

Ex-Officio:

A. Barbera, M. Dolan, J. Edelson, R. Mukherji,

J. Haynie, M. Marquez Bell, P. O’Sullivan.

Representatives: |. Ahmed,

L. Anker C. Cocca, M. Colaneri,

T. DelGiudice, N. Dorata, A. Ebrahimi, M. Foglino, C. Franco, A. Frisken,
C. Hobson, H. Lewittes, A. Martinez, M. Metlay, B. Serrano.
Visitors: M. Bhan, R. Buttermilch, J. Conforti, E. Ewen, S. Kaufmann,
M. Keizer, J. Llana, W. Lupardo, C. Mirra, S. O’Connor, N. Vaid, R.
Welton.

1. Approval of Minutes:
T. DelGiudice submitted a written version on his report on Budget and
Planning to supplement the account in the minutes.
Provost O’Sullivan submitted following changes: (changes underlined)
1) scsssssacusnses students and retain faculty
IZ) canssesssveis : Coordinators for Middle States. The committee for the
Middle States Periodic Review Report is being established.
6) delete allocation. ............ delete Security , replace with
University.
7)

Delete plans for growth; replace with we plan to grow our
enrollment.

8) senercesse Policies and (add) faculty salaries. Delete concern replace
with We need to. ......... mean based on rank and (add) discipline
(delete) department by comparison replace with when compared
to other...
9) delete auditing replace with who audit classes .
Add N. Dorata to list of those present at the 2-4-05 meeting.
2.

Chairs Report: (attached)

Additional comment about trees cut down in Atrium. It is unfortunate that
this had to be done, as the trees were the backdrop for campus gatherings,
including commencement receptions. The Old Westbury community needs
symbols of identity, and they were such a symbol, embodying life and
growth. M. Dolan contacted officials at SEMPRA, who expressed concern
about the issue. They reported that they recommended that the trees
should be trimmed down about 10 feet in order to safely install new
equipment,

but that they would

never cut down trees.

They further

expressed concern about the issue of cutting trees, and asked to be
informed about plans for their replacement.
3. President’s Report:

(President Butts did not attend the Senate Meeting.)

4. Provost s Report: (O’Sullivan)
. Mission Review Il: SUNY System Campus Visit: Site visit from System
team will take place end of May or early June. BPC will be the main
forum to field comments from System team. Rehearsals for visit
have already begun. Provost is preparing series of questions for
Cabinet and BPC. There will be a series of sequential meetings to
discuss Guidance Document questions, so that we know where we are
going, why and how we plan to get there.
b. Middle States: Committee membership is almost finalized. Provost
made the Handbook of the Middle States Review Report available.
This will be further discussed at the March 11 Senate Meeting.
c. Snow: Impact and Make-up days. Provost stated that he consulted
with Public Safety, and then consulted with Dr. Butts about the
cancellation of classes Monday evening classes. M. Kinane was then
informed and information was posted on the Web. A similar process
was followed Tuesday, and the decision to open College for 10:50

classes was posted on Web by 7:15 am Tuesday. Provost was present
in the AV Building until about 12:00 on Tuesday . Faculty needs to
consider instituting make-up days for classes that are cancelled due
to snow, scheduled holidays, or faculty absences. This is common
practice at other institutions.

d. Teaching for Learning Center Faculty Symposium April 15.
Arrrangements for this event are progressing. President Butts has
agreed to make a presentation to welcome the participants at this
e.
f.

event.

Faculty Lounge: Plans for Faculty Lounge are underway and should be
available by September.
Faculty Development: SUNY Office of the Provost has issued a
detailed and comprehensive report on the issue of faculty
development,

g.

seriously.

DSI:

and Provost O’Sullivan takes the recommendations

Provost has reviewed salaries of faculty at the College and has

found that salaries of about 25 faculty are well below the SUNY
mean, based on rank and discipline. This kind of disparity is morally
wrong and has a corrosive effect. The College could address this
inequity by deferring merit raises for one year, and use the
approximately $150,000 to bring the salaries of these faculty to
parity.

President Butts is willing to consider this issue.

to address this issue in their department.
h. Goals for next five years: (see attached)

Faculty need

Provost will meet with interdisciplinary programs to rethink issues
that will arise in context of School of Arts and Sciences and Five year
plan.
Comments:
e The 876-3030 number with recorded message as to class
cancellations has been working very well
e Snow removal has been going better this time that
previously. However, some stairs, bays, and walkways in
Campus Center were not cleared adequately.
e College has fewer class days in Spring than in Fall. This
should be taken into account when considering make-up
days.
Concern was expressed about the discussion of interdisciplinary
programs. This should be done more formally.
Addressing equity in faculty salaries is laudable, and something
that faculty have wanted to address for several years.
5.

University Faculty Senator Report: (M. Dolan)

(see attached)

6. SGA Report (M. Foglino): SGA is in a much stronger position than it was in
the past semester. Budget has finally been passed. Campus life is
resuming. There is a ‘Spring Bling’ week being planned. There are also
plans to bring a play on to campus. Progress is under way on the revisions
of the Constitution of SGA.
SGA is responsible for the social life on campus. Faculty have a great deal
of influence on the quality of events and activities of SGA. Numbers of
commuters on campus is increasing, but there is a significant underrepresentation of commuters in SGA positions and activities. Faculty should
encourage students with leadership potential to join SGA. Commuters
should be made aware of the effect that they could have on increasing the
vibrancy of life on campus. Faculty should also inform and support SGA in
presenting the types of events and activities that they think would be
worthwhile.
7.

Student Affairs Report:

8.

New Business:

(J. Haynie) (see attached)

a.

Service Learning Informational Event will take place on April 28" in
the Campus Center Atrium. Contact Sharon O’Connor, School of
Teacher Education.
b. CAP Resolution (E. Bever; seconded A. Barbera)
Whereas in the past the performance of adjuncts was supervised
beyond the departmental level as the Faculty Bylaws stipulate in
Appendix C of the ARPT (manual), and

Whereas this practice has in recent years fallen into desuetude, and
Whereas there have been increasing complaints by the students to
the Office of Academic Affairs about the quality of instruction by
adjuncts:
Be it resolved that the departments and the ARPT committee will
resume following Appendix C of the ARPT manual as or the 2004-2005

Academic Year.

Resolution passed unanimously.