Joint Faculty Approved Applied Learning Task Force – Applied Learning Legacy
Project at SUNY OW
Report to Faculty Senate
Fall 2021
Hugh Fox and Kerry Weir, Co-Chairs
December 10, 2021

Creation of the Committee
The Joint Faculty Approved Applied Learning Task Force was created in response to the Applied
Learning: Legacy Project at SUNY Old Westbury . The initial overarching objective was to build
the capacity for SUNY OW to design, develop, and sustain applied learning opportunities and
experiences for students. The committee also explored the following objectives:
• the appropriate place of Applied Learning among student expectations as a
graduation requirement,
• the most effective process integration of Applied Learning within the existing
structures of curriculum review and assessment,
• the seamless incorporation of non-credit bearing applied learning activities within
an institutional review and approval process.
Membership
Hugh Fox, Kerry Weir, Blidi Stemn, Edislav Manetovic , Shalei Simms, Christos Noutstos,
Madeline Crocitto, Maria Cabail and Michelle Wohlman-Izakson (Applied Learning Coordinator)
Accomplishments
With the financial support that was received 36 students were recruited for funded cocurricular experiences that heightened the level of student-faculty engagement.
We established a process and criteria for evaluating individual versions of credit-bearing
courses for inclusion under one or more of the Applied Learning “tags” in Banner, enabling us
to track sections and enrollments. While the fiscal constraints brought on by the pandemic
resulted in a modest reduction (~13%, drop from 87 course sections to 75 courses) in the
number of AL course section offerings in fall 2020 as compared with fall 2019, the overall
student enrollment in these courses increased by approximately 6% (from 940 course
enrollments in fall 2019 to 992 course enrollments in Fall 2020).
In establishing the new Applied Learning Coordinator position, the College has established an
Applied Learning Clearinghouse (Panther PLATFORM for Applied Learning) to facilitate
assessment, tracking, and analyzing SLOs within credit bearing courses and non-credit
bearing activities. Project objectives correlated to the expansion of applied learning
experiences to recruit students and to increase retention and completion. As the applied
learning program grows on campus, the mechanism for retention and completion will be
further analyzed. The platform and the clearinghouse were targeted objectives within the

scope of the original proposed project. Our vision will link applied learning expectations for
students upon
completion and graduation.
a. Number of new approved applied learning course sections created: three new
courses were submitted the task force for tagging as applied learning courses:
AS 5311: Abolitionism and Hip-Hop Art; AS 3860: Special Topics Media
Production; and AS 3010 Podcasting.
b. Number of approved applied learning course sections: each semester since Fall
2019 we have offered an average of 92 Applied Learning sections.
c. Number of faculty trained in the development of approved applied learning 10
faculty members have advanced knowledge and training in approved applied
Learning (Drs. Kerry Weir, Maria Zulema Cabail, Blidi Stemn, Edislav Manetovic ,
Christos Noutsos, Shalei Simms and Madeline Crocitto, Bonnie Eannone, Hugh
Fox, & Dr. Laura Anker)
d. Number of course sections modified to incorporate approved applied learning (if
known) PY 3500 CPD: Professional Development Psychology course; the purpose
of this course is professional development for Psychology students. The ALC is
working with the instructor, the Director of Field Placement, to incorporate the 5
approved applied learning criteria with the aspiration of tagging the course in the
future.
e. # of presentations or publications resulting from the project, project outcomes
outside of SUNY (writ-large)
Publication: 8
Presentations: 4

Note: * undergraduate student presenter
Bernardin, A.* & Goode, K. (2020). Birthing #blackboyjoy: Black midwives caring for Black
mothers of Black boys during pregnancy and childbirth. Manuscript submitted for
publication.
Spirou, D * , Alvarado, A.*, Barksdale, D.*, Zapata, S.* & Quirke, C.. “Long Island Women
in Governance: A Review of Women in Governance from Local School Boards through to
U.S. Congress, 2020” Paper presentation accepted for Spring 2020 SUNY Undergraduate
Research Conference (Cancelled due to covid) (Report 2021, forthcoming).
Castro, A.*; Cabail, M.Z.. NF-κB Modulates Autophagy In Metabolic Activated Macrophages.
(October, 2020). Poster presented virtually at The Annual Biomedical Research Conference
for Minority Students (ABRCMS 2020).
Mascareno, A.*; Cabail, M.Z. New Insight Into The Molecular Mechanism Of ObesityAssociated Metabolic Inflammation: A Novel Cross-Talk Between Autophagy And NF-κB
Pathways. (October, 2020). Poster presented virtually at The Annual Biomedical Research
Conference for Minority Students (ABRCMS 2020).

Joseph, J.N.*, Cruz, G.*, Cabanas, E*., Vasquez, M.A.*, Khairi, E.B.*, Bonitto, J.R. * &
Neuwirth, L.S. (October, 2020). The Effects of Developmental Lead (Pb2+) Exposure on
Later Life Social Behaviors: Implications for Social & Emotional Psychiatric Susceptibilities.
Poster presented virtually at the 1st Annual NURVS Conference.
Joseph, J.N., Cruz, G.*, Cabanas, E.*, Vasquez, M.A.*, Khairi, E.B.*, Bonitto, J.R.* &
Neuwirth, L.S. (May, 2020). The Effects of Developmental Lead (Pb2+) Exposure on Later
Life Social Behaviors: Implications for Social & Emotional Psychiatric Susceptibilities. Poster
presented virtually at the 1st Annual AXON Conference.
Wyckoff, C., & Weir, K. (2020, March 8-13). Augmentative and alternative communication
devices – Improving emotional competence for students with ASD [Conference poster
presentation]. CEC 2020 Convention, Virtual Event, United States.
Weir, Kerry; Wohlman-Izakson, Michelle; and Gilic, Lina (2020) "Teaching & Learning During
COVID-19: Alternative Instructional Activities through Individualized Learning Plans,"
Experiential Learning & Teaching in Higher Education: Vol. 3: No. 2, Article 10.
Nieto, Fernando and Fox, Hugh. (June, 2021). Capacity Building: Thematic Inquiry-based
Mentorship with Enhancement Mode for Creating Sustained Transformation in First-Time to
College Underrepresented Minority Participation Rates in STEM Through Collaborative
Engagements, Association of American Colleges and Universities, 2021 Massachusetts PKAL
Network Spring Meeting on STEM Education and High-Impact Practices Moving Forward,
Virtual.
Nieto, Fernando and Fox, Hugh. (April, 2021). Capacity Building: Thematic Inquiry-based
Mentorship with Enhancement Mode for Creating Sustained Transformation in First-Time to
College Underrepresented Minority Participation Rates in STEM Through Collaborative
Engagements, SUNY Student Success Summit, Annual Conference, Virtual.
Nieto, Fernando and Fox, Hugh. (November, 2020). Capacity Building: Thematic Inquirybased Mentorship with Enhancement Mode for Creating Sustained Transformation in FirstTime to College Underrepresented Minority Participation Rates in STEM Through
Collaborative Engagements, Association of American Colleges and Universities, Conference
on Transforming STEM Education, Virtual.
Fox, Hugh. (May, 2020). Critical Awareness Mapping - A Century Long Retrospective on
Exclusionary Processes to Inform a Collaborative Approach for Building Situational
Awareness and Implementing Responsive Collaborative Early-Stage Entrepreneurial Activity
Toward Marginalizing Social Inequity, National Conference on Race and Ethnicity in
American Higher Education, Annual Conference, New York, NY.
Student engagement
f. Number of students participating in approved credit-bearing applied learning
courses
Fall 2019: 940 students in 87 sections
Spring 2020: 1,377 students in 112 sections
Fall 2020: 992 students in 75 sections

Spring 2021: 1,248 students in 92 sections
g. Number of students engaged through applied learning outreach (career services
counseling, information sessions, course orientations to applied learning) 302
students have been informed of applied learning benefits and opportunities over
the first year of the SUNY PIF thorough 1:1 connect sessions with the ALC and
advised during placement workshops.3 Orientations and onboarding sessions for
intern cohorts for spring 2021 took place at the beginning of the semester. 3
Public Health field placement workshops were held by the ALC to assist students
during the COVID 19 disruption for spring 2021 placement. During the Spring
2021 semester through Career Planning and Development programming an
Experience Matters Expo: Internship & Volunteer Opportunities . This Expo will
engage the entire campus community and will highlight The Panther PLATFORM
for Applied Learning Internship Program with the goal of placing students in
internship opportunities for the summer and fall semesters of the 2021 school
year.
Future Direction
The future of applied learning at SUNY Old Westbury is one with great potential for student and
faculty engagement. Ideas for advancement of applied learning include the continuation of
applied learning courses across the various schools, establishment of Applied Learning Fellows,
a micro credential in Applied Learning, an Applied Learning Campus Showcase, and the
maintenance and further development of the Panther Platform for Applied Learning. The Task
Force also recommends to the Faculty Senate that the college look to fill the role of Applied
Learning Coordinator as soon as possible.