Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                           Friday, April 10, 2015



Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding.), Fernando Guerrero
(Vice Chair/ML), Robert Gero (Secretary/Treasurer/VA), Werner Sbaschnik
(Parliamentarian), Minna Barrett (University Senator), Kathie Greenberg
(Senator at-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Caroline Sawyer
(University Senator Alternate/Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-
Large), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Laura
Anker (First Year Experience), Curt Friehs (Library), Lingxiang Li
(Accounting), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Sanja Cale
(Exceptional Education), Laura Chipley (American Studies), Manya Mascareno
(Biological Studies),Michael Colaneri (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf
(English), Edward Bever (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Tom Delgiudice
(PEL), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Martha Livingston (Public Health), Amanda
Shigihara (Sociology), Cary Lange (CAP Committee),  Ryoko Yamamoto (TLRC),
Jacob Heller (FRR Committee).

Senators Absent: Costas Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman
(Professional), Frank C. Ilozue (SGA), Camilla Swasey (SGA), Shalei Simms
(MMF Dept.), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Chris Hobson (ARPT
Com.), Cary Lange (CAP), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC),

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP),
Wayne Edwards (VP Student Affairs), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS).

Visitors Present: Laurie Morris (PSY), Sandra Kaufman (Institutional
Research & Assessment),

   I. Call to Order: 12:31 pm

  II. Approval of minutes of March 27. 2015

      Minutes were unanimously accepted by voice vote.


 III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report


    • Dr. Barrett the campus wide Senate Representative presented the New
      York State Budget report for SUNY funding. Senators from that meeting
      asked if there were plans to activate the campus community to protest
      the budget. The Executive Committee met after the meeting with
      representatives and decided on a plan of action.


    • At the last Faculty Senate meeting we discussed the budget and a
      number of faculty asked how they should address it. We decided to hold
      a set of four meetings over the course of two weeks during common hour
      on Wednesday and Thursday. What resulted from those meetings was the
      creation of three committees made up of students, staff, and faculty.
      The 1st focuses on the budget itself, the 2nd the creation of a fact
      sheet, and a 3rd dates for a Full Town Hall Meeting.
    • The attendees decided after the first meeting to arrange an open forum
      for students to discuss their concerns about TAP allocation, rational
      tuition increases and the Dream Act for undocumented students who
      graduated from New York Public Schools.
    • The second committee focused on discussing the faculty wage increase.
      Faculty are concerned about the salary increases in the new budget.
      SUNY has only given 2/3 of our wage increase. Another issue regards
      how 10 % of the budget that is withheld from campuses that are under
      performance funding is going to be addressed.
    • Minna and I will be attending a State Wide Meeting in Plattsburg
      during the last week of April. Fernando will be the chair of the next
      Faculty Senate meeting for that reason.

  IV. President’s Report

      The President is unable to attend.

   V. Provost’s Report

    • The 2015-16 enacted budget provides a total increase of 42.2 million
      in direct state tax support to end TAB State University on NY. The
      break down is up to 40.2 million.
      State Operative Campuses: 15.1 million
      Statutory Campuses: 0.3 million
      Community Colleges: 17.1 million
      Teaching hospital: 0.1 million
      University Wide Direct State Support: 9.6 million.
      That is actually an increase of 42.2 million over what was enacted in
      2014-15. We don’t know what percentage of this Old Westbury will
      receive as an individual campus.

  VI. Old Business

      Up-date on Budget


    • A chart from Peter Kneufer shows where the changes are in the 2014-15
      and 2015-16.
    • EOP got some money returned but is still behind
    • We still don’t know what happens to the Dream Act Education Tax
      Credit.
    • They are not funding our salary increases fully and are using
      students’ tuition to make up the difference.
    • We have an opportunity to talk about this and I intend to bring it to
      the Faculty Senate next week. We also want to talk about the Dream Act
      and salary increases and the TAP GAP that is tied to tuition. Now we
      are paying part of that tuition.

Social Justice Component Resolution

    • We tabled this resolution on December 12, 2013. The resolution was
      originally proposed by the Executive Committee in consultation with
      then Senate Parliamentarian, Jacob Heller, in Feb. 2014 partly in
      response to results from a student exit survey conducted in 2012. This
      issue causes us to consider how we define social justice. We will
      address this issue at the Disparity Conference held by TLRC next week.
      We need to address how faculty will incorporate Social Justice into
      their curriculum.
    • A senator asked how we would follow this in the sense of assessment.
    • Barb Hillary, the Dean commented that Social Justice is an important
      part of our college mission and one of the things Middle States
      questioned in our last review is how we are showing that we are
      accomplishing and assessing this aspect of our mission. Assessment is
      a difficult issue, but we got need to work on that in for the next
      Middle States review.
    • A concern of some faculty is that the curriculum is being dictated to
      them by implementing this resolution. We need to address this concern.
    • Faculty Senate agreed to table this resolution and put it into the
      agenda for voting on at the next meeting.


 VII. New Business

New Resolution on departmental Authority in Non-Rehiring
Decision Relating to Contingent Faculty.

    • We are going to vote in this resolution at the next Faculty senate
      meeting.
    • There was a complaint from an adjunct who was not rehired. Academic
      departments get to make decisions about whom we hire to teach specific
      classes. In a situation where the department has made the
      determination to hire an academic member and the administration has
      decided not to do so, they need to consult with the department before
      making this decision. We want to ensure this doesn’t happen again.
      Adjuncts should know and have the right to confront the accuser and
      defend themselves against an accusation. We need to be transparent and
      clear. Departments have the right to rehire an adjunct unless
      something happens and the adjunct and the department need to know and
      be in that conversation.
    • If there are many students complaining about an adjunct, the chair has
      the option not to hire the instructor again.
    • If you are terminated by the administration without the knowledge of
      the department chair or the department, then you have the right to
      know and to clarify the issue. That could be added to the resolution.
    • This resolution is to return to the department chair full control on
      hiring people and avoid the administration acting alone and deciding
      to fire adjuncts without the consent of the department.
    • The senate decided to work on rewording the resolution and to bring it
      forward at the next meeting to vote on it.

Nomination for Chair of Faculty Senate

Dr. Delgiudice, from the PEL Department was nominated to fill the position
during the next Academic Year. His nomination was seconded from a first and
second party, he declined.
Dr. Velsor was nominated for the position she is holding now. The
nomination was seconded and accepted.


VIII. Announcements


    • We will continue our meetings about the budget next Wednesday and
      Thursday in NAB Room 1115 at common hours. We need people to work on
      the logistics.
    • Eddie Palmieri will play at Old Westbury’s Maguire Theater on April
      16.
    • The TLR Committee invites you to the 11th Annual Faculty Conference on
      Friday, April 17, 2015 from 9:00 am to 3:30 pm in the NAB Rooms 1110,
      1105 and at the Campus Center Recital Hall. This year the Annual
      Conference will venture into the theme of disparity.
    • The Students Health Center will hold the third in a series of talks
      about wellness during common hour at the Student’s Health Center sited
      in the CC-I wing. Light lunch will be provided.
    • The 2015 School of Art and Sciences Student Research Day will present
      a research fair on Tuesday, April 21, 2015 from 10:30 am to 6:00 pm at
      the Student Union Multipurpose Room A, B, and C.


  IX. Adjournment at 2:05 pm. April 10, 2015