BPC REPORT TO FACULTY SENATE
December 6, 2002

Submitted by Thomas DelGiudice
I apologize for not being available, but I am participating in the first round of teleconference interviews for the next Vice
President of Academic Affairs. Given the importance of this duty I hope you will accept this brief report in lieu of my

presence. Please feel free to contact me if you have questions or I will address them in a future meeting.

I have recently been asked by Dr. Butts to serve as Vice Chair of the BPC and have accepted. In this capacity I will help set
the committee’s agenda, communicate

with the faculty as needed and requested, meet with the Chief Financial Officer Len

Davis in helping to make the BPC more productive and a facilitator for setting and meeting the College’s goals. Our faculty
representatives on the BPC now include Dr. Judy Walsh from Humanities and Languages.

The BPC met in September and October, our regular meeting in November was postponed as a number of the faculty including
myself were out of town at conferences and couldn’t attend. We will meet again before December 20",

At our
having
million
created

earlier meetings we discussed the college’s budget situation and the ongoing discussions our campus representatives are
with SUNY Central. Since our operating expenses for this year exceeded our total revenues by approximately 1.7
for this year our first task was to bring expenses in line with revenues. Division VPs met with affected parties and
proposals for bringing the college into balance by the spring semester. Dr. O’Sullivan had a series of meetings with

individual Chairs and members of the BPC faculty regarding Academic Affairs.

I will be reporting on the specifics of the College’s budget in the very near future. Patrick O’ Sullivan or Len Davis can brief
the Senate with respect to their meetings in Albany. I will be available to meet with individual faculty, chairs, departments,

faculty committees and the Senate as needed or requested.

Recent statewide budget circumstances not withstanding there seems to be a commitment from Albany to assist us in our
transition to building enrollments, getting our Masters programs going and supporting the College over the next five years.
However their idea of supporting us is to gradually wean us off the subsidy they are providing the College above the state

allocated BAP allocation over the next five years. Presently our state BAP allocation is approximately 19.7 million and the
subsidy is 3.3 million for this year. Because our BAP revenues are tied to enrollments it is imperative we build enrollments,
enhance our name recognition and image and provide a curriculum that is both attractive to today’s students and well rounded
and rigorous so as to prepare our students as citizens and as new entrants into the labor market.

The vision for the College over the next five years will be the subject of BPC meetings throughout the winter and spring. On
the vision on the academic side should be an ongoing discussion among relevant faculty committees, the Faculty Senate and its
executive committee, the Vice President, and department chairs. The BPC will be reaching out and actively communicating

with various constituencies beginning early in the spring semester.

RECENT EVENTS
In an effort to deal with the state’s fiscal deficit Albany sent word the Wednesday before Thanksgiving that all state
institutions were to cut the revenues received from the state budget by 5% and that the cut needed to be communicated to
Albany by the following Tuesday.
An emergency meeting was called over the Thanksgiving weekend for early Monday morning. Dr. Butts requested that I
notify the BPC faculty and the Faculty Senate Chair. I sent emails out over the weekend, but because of the short notice not all
faculty could make the meeting. The meeting was attended by myself, Dr. Robert Hoyte and Dr. Rita Colon Urban. All

division heads were asked to revisit their working budgets and find whatever they could to bring us in line with the 5% cut.
The result of the day’s labor was a $212,300

cut to our College’s budget. The details of the cuts to Academic

Affairs were

communicated by Dr. O’Sullivan at the Chairs meeting. The cut represents real pain for the College, but it was, I believe,
fairly distributed within Academic Affairs and across the College. The percentage distribution of cuts are as follows:
% of the
Emergency Cut

%

of the College’s
Expenditure*

Academic Affairs

41%

49%

Non Academic Affairs

59%

51%

Finally let me say, at the risk of being accused of being naive or worse, that despite the problems of the state budget it is my
opinion that we finally have some of the elements needed to make the College something in which we can have a growing
pride. Is it a critical mass? That remains to be seen.
But we
e
e

e
e
e

do have new facilities that will provide us an opportunity to overcome some plant and image obstacles I confess I
often doubted we would ever overcome;
have a capital plan, thanks in large part to our colleague Maureen Dolan’s diligence, that when it kicks off will make

areal difference to the Academic Village;
have areal possibility of another academic building being built in the next several years;
are emerging from the dark ages in terms of the technology we have available;
have some administrators at key positions who have the required competencies, and as I have witnessed, work very
hard, and importantly there is growing comfort level and confidence with the issues facing Old Westbury such that
we can get down to shaping the next five years in a systematic manner.

And while some may accuse me of wishful thinking I doubt there are many on the faculty who are confronted as much as I am
with the daily operational problems of the College. In the various duties I have undertaken over the past few years I am very
cognizant of the critical challenges we need to confront. Building more efficient systems with a shrinking staff, providing
strong

and

balanced

liberal

arts offerings

while

also executing

on

important

Master

degree

programs

in education

and

accounting, finding the equilibrium for all our programs and being satisfied with it, so that we can grow the college without
cannibalizing each other. As the College grows so to will our programs. These are a few of the issues that require discussion
and I hope we will have it.