Middle States Periodic Review and the Academic re-organization: Discussion postponed to
the next Senate meeting in the interests of time.
New Business:
SGA representative M. Foglino introduced a resolution (attached) on the Mission Review II,

based on a similar resolution adopted by the Student Government Association.

Report on Facilities by W. Kimmins: (this agenda item was postponed until after the SGA
Resolution had been placed on the floor of the Senate)

°
Had planned to introduce Sal Ciavirella, Director of Facilities, to the Senate, but is
not sure where he is.

°

Facilities has been very busy.

In 1999, the Administration put together a

Strategic Plan that projected 5000 students. However, the plan did not provide for any
additional police officers, secretaries, personnel in Bursar or Registrar’s offices, or

maintenance staff. The plan to increase was put on hold; now it is in place again. Need to
increase efficiency and productivity has not helped. OW is staffed at 30% of the 5 other
comparable campuses in SUNY. There are new dorms and new Student Union, which is good,
but this has added 30 new public bathrooms, without additional staff to clean them.
e

The old dorms have been rented to Briarcliff College, and there were students

from St. Georges Medical School who came for emergency housing last Fall. There were
some additional 1,600 people on campus, but no additional maintenance people were added
Having the new Director of Facilities on board, we hope to improve manpower problems.
Dr. Butts and L. Davis are aware of these.

Q: Why was the money from the rentals not structured to address the need for personnel?
Was the income from rental insufficient?
A: It is not possible hire either full-time staff on short notice or temporary people on CSEA

TOF

OPO

contracts.

Isn’t is possible to hire a cleaning service?
We now have a cleaning service contract.
Space in the new dormitories is not sufficient to meet the demands of Old Westbury
students. Will there be space in the old dormitories for them?
Yes, there is a dormitory set aside for them.

What is the arrangement with New York Institute of Technology?
A: We are working to draw up a contract with them. We are reserving one new dorm for
this. It has been fixed up: dorms repainted, floors fixed; doors repaired. There are some
structural problems that cannot be fixed.

Announcement: A. Ebrahimi reminded the assembled that TLC was hosting a presentation
following the Senate meeting, in the same room. The featured speaked was G. Wachman,
speaking on a topic related to her recent book: “Other Modernists: Vernon Lee and Sylvia
Townsend Warner: Imperialism, Sexuality, Revolution, and War.” All are welcome.
Meeting adjourned at 2:45 pm