STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
Full Faculty Meeting
Friday, March 6, 2020
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location S-100
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive

Roster of Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (chair), Laurette Morris (University
Senator), Michael Kavic (At Large Rep to the EC), Bonnie Eannone (professional), John
Estes (Senator At Large), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA),
Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Do Young Park (Math & CIS), Lisa
Payton (AS), Camille Jones (CH), Lina Gilic (EE), Runi Mukherji (University Senator
Alternate), Ashley Alvarado (SGA), Jashey Mattheson (SGA), Jillian Nissen (BS), Erin Toolis
(PY), Sara Williamson (MMF), Roger Mayer (AC), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Christopher
Hobson (ARPT)
Faculty: Chelsea Shields-Mas, Diana Papademas, Zulema Cabail, Tom DelGiudice, Shalei
Simms, Betty Berbari, Chris Hartman, Danielle Lee, Anahi Douglas, Jeanne Shimizu, Lori
Zaikowski, Joe Manfredi, Rahwa Haile, Mohamed Khalifa, Ruomei Gao, Arthur Samansky
Visitors: Duncan Quarless, Jacob Heller, Cris Notaro, Ed Bever, Anthony Barbera, Martha
Livingston, Steve Siena, Amanda Frisken, Barbara Hillery, Raj Devasagayam, Diana
Sukhram, Michael Kinane, Oren Shefet, Cristine Tesoriero, Marissa Hoffman

Minutes

0.
I.
II.

Meeting arrival and sign in
12:20 p.m.
Call to Order
12:30 p.m.
Faculty Senate Chair’s Report, Andrew Mattson
− Library Advisory Group, Faculty volunteers (2 SAS, 1 SOE, 1 SOB)
− Dr Stephanie Schneider (SOE/Childhood Ed)
− Dr Do Young Park (SAS/MCIS)
− Dr Chelsea Shields-Mas (SAS/HP)
− Dr Sara Williamson (SOB/Marketing)
− SPAAR Committee, The Strategic Planning, Assessment, Analysis, and Review
(SPAAR) Committee was created in the 2018-2019 academic year as an
outgrowth of the College’s implementation of its 2018-2023 Strategic Plan. The
charge and composition of SPAAR was developed in fall 2018 by the SPAAR
1

III.

Committee Task Force, a group of faculty and administrators who worked
collaboratively to develop a framework for the committee and its work. (from
College Website)
− SPAAR committee assesses how well the strategic plan is being implemented.
− The committee sent rubrics (spreadsheets) to all divisions, almost all data is in.
− Needs to meet with divisions, evaluate how well the plan is being implemented,
are there any changes.
− Produce report by June 15th, assessing the progress of the implementation of
the strategic plan.
− Faculty Committee Elections; An email will be distributed before Spring
break calling for nominations for standing committees.
− Nominate yourself and others for college wide committees. Nominations need
to be in a few weeks after break, so that the ballots can be distributed, mailed,
and counted to establish winners of the election. Bylaws state snail mail for
election ballots.
− Approval of Minutes for Full Faculty meeting on October 4, 2019
− Motion to approve minutes was seconded. One amendment was noted.
− Minutes approved as amended by voice vote, without dissent.
President’s Report, Dr. Calvin O. Butts III
− "I'm not supposed to be here" asked to stay until end of the semester (Spring
2020). Chancellor and SUNY did not accept our recommendation for Officer in
Charge.
− Presidential search process is moving along, delighted to stick around for
another semester and makes separation time a bit easier.
− Dr Butts hopes the process will move quickly and anticipates at least three
names to be sent to the Chancellor sometime in May or June, ambitious but out
of President's hand.
− Three members of Old Westbury community will be honored with Chancellor's
Awards. Two students will receive SUNY Chancellor's Award for Student
Excellence, PEL major (Priscilla Ortega) and Psychology major (Karidi?) at a
system wide event next month.
− Art Samansky, Adjunct in Management marketing and Finance will receive the
2020 SUNY Chancellor's Award for excellence in Adjunct Teaching, presented at
commencement.
− Congrats to middle states steering committee. “People” have asked for our selfstudy design to use as a model for the entire country
− Please continue to cooperate with committees, no foreseen issues. Old
Westbury’s next visit will take place in Spring 2021.
− Budget: 6-8-Billion-dollar deficit in NY State budget. Continuation and extension
of maintenance effort. Predictable tuition increase for 2024-2025. Floor, no
major increase or decrease in funding.
2

IV.

− Must cooperate to get what we can, State ought to work harder to make sure
tuition increases can be avoided.
− Expansion of excelsior scholarship, increase eligibility (130k - 2021, 150k 2022)
− Willingness in Senate to fix TAP gap, could result in nearly $2 million for campus
Provost Report - Duncan Quarless
− Honors Convocation is coming up next month, most immediate piece is that
departments meet the deadline to nominate students for the President's medal
of excellence, presented to a student both at honors and graduation. Deadline
was in the memo sent by Barbara Hillery, a week from Friday (March 13th).
− Joint task force Applied Learning attempting to advance the charge includes the
allocation and disbursement of some funds to applied learning activities. Help us
to begin building capacity in underserved areas and in its developmental stage
where this kind of assistance could lead to broadening opportunities in the
future, and the more immediate present.
− Mentioned at a previous faculty senate meeting, I want to thank the Open
Education Resources committee, their activities and all those participating, that
through those efforts we have been able to document that student cost burdens
have been managed to $155,000 dollars this year.
− Potential blackboard contingency in the event we have to go to more remote
teaching operations, Open SUNY assistance to us working in conjunction with IT
on the campus. Bandwidth and the functionality should that become necessary
− Questions:
− blackboard being unable to communicate with students, some students being
unable to access their e-mails?
− We are attempting to work with IT to make sure the communication problems
are adequately addressed.
− When we are having those issues, use service desk at oldwestbury.edu to log and
track those communication issues to have it come through the work form out of
that e-mail account
− Have students (transparent and timely) is to have an electronic record of what
the issues are.
− What if we had to not have classes on campus and these issues come up?
− Technology is messy, last Friday on Desktop Outlook e-mail says "readjust your
account"?
− Is it within blackboard, or is it an email issue?
− Students reply to announcement, saves faculty e-mail as blackboard name,
otherwise it gets sent to nothing. 2-3 students claim they were sent, but it gets
sent to elsewhere unknown?
− Ask all to communicate, (e-mail area of compiled area for issue with regard to
blackboard) to IT
3

V.

VI.

− Middle States update, Anthony Barbera: Eight working groups are working
away, respond if you get any questions. Steering committee met recently, have to
survey the faculty on certain issues, anticipate that survey sometime this month.
− Question - is there a place to learn blackboard?
− Chandra Shehigian - is the Instructional technologist. No online easily available
problem solving tutorial on our website. There are things within blackboard,
many people post answers to all the questions. Chandra is actually going to
assist in putting together materials if any of us need it.
− Yesterday, direct communication from the blackboard team, response to that
was to get all of the deans in a communication along with Chandra and Evan so
that we are coordinating in a way that makes whatever may become the
contingency plan is a coordinated effort in communication to all of us, to know
what the resources are to support.
− Many colleges are reassessing their relationship with blackboard (SUNY, SUNY
colleges) door has been open again, so give feedback through Duncan (to Evan)
in a discussion with the CIOs to talk about blackboard, so he should know how
you feel about it in SUNY wide discussion.
− Martha - I hope that when/if a decision is made, that we are included in the
decision to make sure we have some say in that...the last time we were not
included
− Duncan - Engaged in consultation, Admin decided that blackboard was more
cost effective.
Presidential Search Update, Tom DelGiudice:
− First official meeting of Presidential Search Committee was February 28, 2020.
Chancellor gave the official charge to start the search. Chancellor’s rep, Paul
Patton was present and extremely useful and helpful.
− Paul is a non-voting member, but oversees HR aspects of Chancellor's Office,
follows Board of Trustees SUNY guidelines, he is an important resource for
College Council Chair.
− Meeting was positive, progress was made, that the search firm brought a draft of
the advertisement, finalizing that advertisement. The chancellor made a positive
impression with Old Westbury and the search.
− Chancellor was touched and engaged, good feelings towards what we were
saying towards her.
− Working on the draft of the advertisement, will come out very soon.
− Question: Was the college counsels chair deadline discussed?
− Not discussed, but that is what is being worked towards.
Current Mental Health Crisis Impact on Students, Oren Shefet: Director of
Counseling and Psychological Wellness Services
− Mental health epidemic, past 10 years, mostly young adults, not sure why it is
happening.
− Increase in anger, depression, overwhelming anxiety, self-injury, suicide.
4

−
−
−
−

VII.

Overwhelming anxiety is at 63%
13% - Seriously considered suicide
1.9% - Attempted suicide
This translates to of 4500 students, 550 students who consider suicide, 90
suicide attempts. Sounds exaggerated, but it is not.
− Increased Awareness: More students with mental health issues are coming to
college, unknown factors?
− 2014-2018 Campus Data: 18% increase of the college population; 85%
increase of students seeking services for depression, anxiety, relational
problems, loneliness, trauma. Students communicating to faculty that they
are struggling.
− College Counseling Center offers help to ALL students (full, part-time,
commuting, non-degree seeking, etc)
− Services include: One-on-one Counseling; Couple Counseling; Psychiatric
Services; Pscyho-diagnostic Testing; Outreach.
− Services are: Free (don't take medical insurance, no financial impediment);
Entirely confidential, does not appear anywhere (short of legal requirement);
No session limits (no cutoff deadline); Not judgmental; Effective.
− How services can help faculty: Referrals - If possible, walk students over to
receive services, stay with student until they have made the first
appointment. Consultations - If you have a classroom situation (conduct or
mental health?) Leverage the expertise of OW’s team of psychologists (BAT);
Classroom Discussions - Can invite members of Counseling and Psychological
Wellness Services over for a class discussion.
− The Behavioral Assessment Team (BAT) is a campus resource dedicated to
assisting students who may be in distress or experiencing challenging or
difficult life circumstances. (BAT) is an Interdisciplinary team headed by the
Dean of Students. If concerned about a student, use the BAT Online form,
with all of the details. To contact the team, go to
https://www.oldwestbury.edu/life/bat
− Counseling Center is located on the first floor of the Student Union, LL100
(below bookstore); Monday - Friday 9am-5pm, (516) 876-3053.
− Question: What about students experiencing issues on the weekend? Where
to recommend after hours?
− Emergency - University Police; If non-emergency University Police and Dean
of Students does have a contact number. If it can wait, leave a message at the
counseling center, and they reach out at the next available time.
− Martha Livingston: the work of the counseling center has been stupendous;
I want to publicly acknowledge what a blessing it has been on campus.
Corona virus Summary, Cristine Tesoriero, RN: Director of Student Health
− Large group of viruses (MERS, SARS)
− Novo - COVID-19 new strain we have not seen in Humans before.
5

VIII.

− Student health center has infection policies in place
− Emergency preparedness plan, daily updates from department of health, CDC,
and SUNY Health counsel, and Daily webinar
− Student Health Center Webpage has a box labeled with information for Corona
Virus, gives you the links to many common websites (CDC, Department Health,
SUNY Alerts) https://www.oldwestbury.edu/life/student-health/coronavirus
− Visit CDC website if you are considering international travel. Level 1, 2, and 3,
tells you the degree of coronavirus at that location.
https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices
− Media has contributed to fear/panic...they are reporting on the most severe
cases
− More deaths in US from Flu than coronavirus to this point
− Symptoms can be from mild to severe, can present as a common cold, fever and
cough.
− Elderly, those with underlying health condition, are most susceptible to
coronavirus.
− Good handwashing technique, infection controls and policies in place will reduce
instance of infection. Handwashing is the single most effective way to prevent
spread of germs.
− Everyday actions to prevent (wash hands for 20 seconds, sing happy birthday
twice with soap and water), if no water, use alcohol-based sanitizer.
− If somebody is sick, avoid close contact (3-6ft apart). If sick, stay home and
isolate.
− Cover cough, through tissue away, cough into elbow (don't infect surfaces)
− Clean and disinfect commonly touched surfaces.
− Vaccine not yet released - (12-18 months)
FRRC Update, Dr Ali Ebrahimi
− FRRC plays a role in solving and mediating issues.
− One of the tasks is how can we solve the problem when it is small rather than
getting bigger.
− Difficulties in campus, first element of teaching (instructional support),
hindering and can make job very difficult
− Faculty really want to mediate the situation and problems they are engaged with
and be included more in decision making (department, school, or large
university as a whole).
− Make sure our faculty have a voice, want to be positive but we need to promote
that people talk differently (particularly social justice)
− ARPT revision last semester went through, in the town hall we also tackled the
issue of the parking task force.
− Still having problems, especially when we here that adjuncts have short time,
don't have places to park (faculty parking resolution for our concerns)
6

IX.

X.

− Need Faculty input for issues, just to make connections (look at availability) How
can we fix the issue so that faculty, adjuncts have rights (parking). Need a 24hour parking solution (at campus center), resolved or something done.
− Look into Faculty lounge that we used to have, legacy of resetting faculty lounge
to allow faculty to get together, collaborate, share things, resources.
− Faculty housing? Great agenda to having more faculty around
UUP, Dr. Martha Livingston
− Chaotic time in administration, coronavirus, and a number of issues
− Awards for compression and inversion, published to membership the list of
"who got what".
− This was the first time that UUP and SUNY have tried to work out rational way to
distribute funds based on being long time, employee
− Compression - New Faculty making just a few dollars less
− Inversion - if people come in making more than you do
− Part of algorithm was farmed out to a private firm, therefore information is
"proprietary" and we will never know.
− UUP Statewide recommended two courses of action: 1. Talk to HR, the people
that crunched the data. 2. Answer the online survey created by UUP, doing this
compression inversion for every year of the contract and into the future, it is
important to fill out the problem into the survey.
− Approximate understanding of what happened in each case, and in some cases
what went wrong (remediated)
− Learned at last senate meeting the final composition of the presidential search
committee, we elected people to represent us (six representatives on
committee), but only one position for professional and support staff. Half of
members in UUP are staff, one slot and it was filled by Len Davis, membership is
unhappy about that. Need to voice concern about this, petition created and will
be forwarding under cover letter to chancellor and to the chair of the college
counsel. Lots of copies to take back to the department to sign.
− Question: Why will the search firm not share the data collection, survey data?
− UUP has no input or ability so far to, was invited to listening committee, no sway
over process whatsoever. Resolution needed in order to go forward with
pushing on the search firm, college counsel chair.
− Maybe there is a way to circumvent, ask for criteria that they are trying to use
based on the survey criteria. Advertisement will contain the general search
evaluation form filled out by search committee, nothing can be in evaluation
form unless it is in the advertisement.
− Maybe we can get the aggregate answers to survey. Fine-tune the request to just
get aggregate results of the survey. We don't need written results of the survey.
− Search firm that is holding the process up, College Counsel chair seemed open
CAP Resolutions, Ryoko Yamamoto & Ed Bever
7

XI.

XII.

− Three new micro credential proposals were distributed and entered into record,
for voting at next senate meeting.
− All three micro-credentials are in Media and Communication, video production
− "Be it resolves Faculty senate approve the micro credential in Non-Fiction Video
Production"
− "Be it resolve that the Faculty senate approve the micro credential in TV News
Production"
− " Be it resolve that the Faculty senate approve the micro credential in Advanced
TV/Video Production"
− CAP voted unanimously to pass resolutions
Announcements
− Chief of Police Steven Siena, E-mail went out earlier today about an incident
that happened to one of our students on Thursday, March 5, 2020. We are
investigating a report of a robbery that occurred at 6:13pm in the campus center
parking lot. Victim received minor injuries, we are working to resolve this
matter. I am charged with making campus safe, I can't speak to particulars about
this event, but be mindful that in this instance the victim invited the suspects
onto campus.
− Ashok Basawapatna, TLRC has sent out request for lighting talks, for Spring
2020 TLRC Mini Conference: “Getting Schooled: Lessons from
Colleagues/Students”. Focus of talks should be "What was most valuable piece of
advice you have received?" Submission Form at tinyurl.com/tlrc2020
− Ashley Alvarado, SGA Mandatory Vote - referendum vote in SGA, determines
whether they function or not, whether student activity fee is mandatory or
optional for students. Allow SGA representatives to talk about this during
classes, any participation is important for campus. Only 5 minutes or less is
needed. The vote will take place March 30-31.
− Michael Kinnane, University Website. Still don't have a signed contract, but
moving towards launch into new redesign / content management system for the
university website. This will change not only what the content will be, but who
can edit and control that content. Haven't been able to set that up in the past,
leadership took that control away. Redesign planned in year with leadership
change. Give people control of their content since who knows better what you
do. Academic departments will be heavily conversed. Conversation is coming,
will be ready to go once classes start in the fall.
Adjournment

2:30pm

8