Resolution on Migration from Google Apps to Microsoft Office 365
Whereas, in the Google Apps vs. Microsoft Office 365 Information & Discussion Forum (“the
Forum”) on October 9, 2015, faculty members, along with student representatives and staff members,
explicitly expressed their concerns with the possible transition from a Google-based system to Microsoft
Office 365 and strong interest in being involved in the decision-making process; and
Whereas, in the same meeting, the Chief Information Officer publicly and unambiguously assured that:
1) A decision to switch to Microsoft Office 365, if it ever happens, would not take place for at least
another year; and
2) Such a decision would never be made without consultation with faculty members; and
3) The IT department would keep the faculty informed of every development on this issue; and
Whereas, the results of the Forum participant survey indicated that the lack of transparency in the
decision-making process and possible disruptions in the transition from Google to Microsoft Office 365
are major concerns; and
Whereas, in the Faculty Senate meeting on March 11th, 2016, the Chief Information Officer revealed
that the College had already decided to switch from the Google-based system to the MSO system as
soon as August 2016; and
Whereas, despite the stated assurance from the Chief Information Officer at the Forum, this decision
was made in the absence of communication or consultation with stakeholders, including the faculty; and
Whereas, information technology is a critical infrastructure for scholarship, pedagogy, and
communication; and
Whereas, the changes in the cloud platform may have a strong impact on teaching tools, research
activities, and communication practices; and
Whereas, all constituencies of the College should strive to foster a culture of effective communication
and cooperation,
Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved That, the Chief Information Officer shall provide explicit answers for
each item on “The Questions Concerning Google Apps - Microsoft Office 365 Migration at SUNY Old
Westbury” to the Faculty Senate and Student Government Association within two weeks from the
delivery of this resolution.

Drafted by the Teaching and Learning Resource Committee (TLRC) and submitted to the Faculty Senate on April 1 st, 2016

The Questions Concerning
Google Apps - Microsoft Office 365 (MSO365) Migration at SUNY Old Westbury
A. Decision-Making Process
A1. When was the decision to switch to MSO365 made?
A2. Who was involved in the decision-making process?
A3. Who among the faculty were consulted in this decision?
A4. Who among students were consulted in this decision?
A5. Who among professional and administrative staff were consulted in this decision?
A6. Other than direct consultation with the faculty and students, how did the IT Department assess the needs
and concerns of users?
A7. How does the IT Department plan to get feedback from faculty, students and staff on their needs and
incorporate them in future decision-making regarding 1) the transition to and use of the cloud platform,
and 2) other IT resources concerning teaching, learning and communicating? Please provide concrete
plans.
B. Transition Process
B1. When will the transition from Google Apps to MSO365 begin? When will it be completed? Please
describe the schedule or incremental process, if any.
B2. Can users continue to use their Google account as a school account if they prefer? If yes, how could
users make a request to do so (if necessary)?
B3. Will the IT Department provide targeted training/workshops on MSO365? If so, when, and how often?
B4. What other plans does the IT Department have to assist users in this transition?
C. Compatibility – General
Please provide a detailed spec of MSO365 as it will be implemented at the College, and make a side-by-side
comparison of the supported features with the Google Apps we currently have.
D. Email
D1. Will all existing emails migrate to MSO365?
D2. Will the complete contact list (including all listservs/groups) migrate to MSO365?
D3. Are there any known issues regarding Google – MSO365 email migration? If so, what are they, and
how are we addressing the issues?
D4. How shall users prepare for email migration?
E. Cloud Storage & Other Apps
E1. Will all existing content of Google Drive migrate to MSO365?
E2. What will happen to Google App data that are not compatible to MSO365 in the process of migration?
E3. Users have linked many Google Docs to Blackboard as teaching resources. Do they have to manually
re-link all of them?
E4. How will Google Forms and data migrate to MSO365? What will be used in place of Google Forms?
E5. Many users write papers in Google Docs and work from different locations. Can users access
MSO365 from any computer with an Internet Connection, or will they be limited by the five MS
licenses that will be provided?
E6. Users collaborate with scholars outside of the US using Google Drive. How will this transition affect
the ability to collaborate with research partners?
Drafted by the Teaching and Learning Resource Committee (TLRC) and submitted to the Faculty Senate on April 1 st, 2016