Faculty Governance Orientation
September 20, 2021
OVERVIEW of Faculty Governance: Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SUNY Governance Structure
Background:







The State University of New York was established through Education Law in 1948.
SUNY is comprised of 64 campuses:
o The 29 state-operated campuses, 30 community colleges and 5 statutory colleges (Alfred
Ceramics and 4 contract colleges within Cornell).
The 29-state operated campuses include:
o 4 university centers (Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo and Stony Brook)
o 2 health science centers (Downstate-Brooklyn and Syracuse)
o 13 university colleges (including Old Westbury) – previously called comprehensive colleges
o 5 technology colleges
o 5 specialized colleges
The Board of Trustees is the governing body of the State University of New York.
The Board consists of 18 members, 15 of whom are appointed by the NYS Governor.
o President of Student Assembly serves as a Trustee with vote.
o UFS and FCCC Presidents serve ex officio without vote.

Authorities of the Board of Trustees (selected):


Regulatory authority, oversight and fiduciary responsibility for the entire SUNY system
o Including oversight pertaining to the State University Construction Fund
o Including oversight pertaining to the SUNY Research Foundation.
 Authority in matters pertaining to operations and administration of each state-operated campus.
 Power to appoint the SUNY Chancellor and System Administration senior staff.
 Power to appoint the President of each state-operated campus.
 Power to regulate the admission of students and prescribe qualifications for their continued
attendance.
 Power to regulate tuition, fees and charges.
 Power to establish new campuses.
 Power to award Distinguished Rank (e.g., Distinguished Teaching and Distinguished Service).
Committees of the Board of Trustees (selected):
 Executive Committee; Academic Affairs, Student Life, Research and Economic Development,
Finance and Administration, Charter Schools, Communication and External Affairs.
 Some Areas of Board activity since 1995: Rethinking SUNY, General Education, Levin Institute,
Public/Private Partnerships, Energy and Sustainability, Seamless Transfer, Micro-credentials.

Shared Governance Model


As established in the SUNY system: faculty, professional staff, administration, governing boards and
students participate in development of policies and in decision making that affects the institution.
University Faculty Senate, Student Assembly and Faculty Council of Community Colleges interact
with each other and with the SUNY Board of Trustees. On campuses, shared governance is practiced
through establishment of faculty governance structures, and models for joint effort that provide
effective input of constituencies to policies, planning, operations and institutional decision making.



University Faculty Senate (UFS):
o Established in 1953 under Article VII of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees.
o UFS is the official agency through which faculty across the SUNY system engage in
governance of the University.
o UFS is organized through Executive Committee and Standing Committees: Awards; Equity,
Diversity and Inclusion; Ethics and Institutional Integrity; Governance, Graduate and
Research, Public Information, Student Life, Undergraduate, and University Operations.



Student Assembly:
o Established in 1973 under Article XVII of Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees.
o The official organization by which SUNY students participate in University-wide governance.

Campus Governance


Faculty Governance
o Under Article X of the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, the faculty of each college are
empowered to legislate and act as a policy making body in the performance of its
responsibilities as determined by the Board of Trustees.
o The faculty of each college are authorized to prepare and adopt bylaws that contain
provisions for committees and their responsibilities; procedures for the calling and conduct
of faculty meetings and elections; and provisions for such other matters of organization and
procedures as may be necessary for the performance of faculty responsibilities.
o The Old Westbury Faculty Senate serves as the deliberative body for organizing and carrying
out the business of the college faculty, as established under Bylaws adopted in accordance
with the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees. The Faculty Senate operates as a
representative form of governance in accordance with governance standards and practices
of the University Faculty Senate.



Student Government
o Student Government Association is the official body by which students participate in campus
governance. Each SGA is represented in Student Assembly. Old Westbury’s SGA provides
information, advocacy and resources for students, and works to build a sense of community.



College Council
o Under Article VIII of the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees, and in accordance with
provisions of Education Law, a Council is established at each state-operated institution.
o Councils exercise such powers as provided for in Education Law, subject to “general
management, supervision, control and approval” in accordance with rules established by
Board of Trustees.
o Councils develop strong relationships between their institution and local communities,
promote campus and University interests, and have statutory role in matters concerning
students (e.g., code of conduct, retention, residential life and safety).
o Councils have a leadership role in presidential searches, and an oversight role in matters of
planning, campus buildings, operations and administration. The College President, Provost
and senior staff report to the Council, which meets [at least] four times per year.
o SUNY Old Westbury’s College Council consists of 7 members appointed by the NY Governor.
The President of SGA serves with vote. Chair of Faculty Senate serves ex officio without vote.

Faculty Governance Orientation
September 20, 2021
OVERVIEW of Faculty Governance: Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Governance
Faculty Senate and Committees of Governance
Background:


Authority of the Faculty: As empowered under Article X of the Policies of the SUNY Board of
Trustees, “the faculty of each college shall prepare and adopt bylaws”. In accordance with these
Bylaws, faculty have responsibility to legislate and act as a policy making body in the performance of
its responsibilities as determined by the Board of Trustees, and in keeping with the standards of
faculty governance recommended by the State University Faculty Senate.



Faculty Governance: The process by which faculty on each campus and across the system
participate significantly in the overall function and advancement of the institution, with faculty
being individually and collectively responsible for the initiation, development and implementation of
the educational, research and service programs.
o Faculty authority, under the Bylaws, extends to operational and institutional matters that
may impact the ability of the faculty to effectively discharge their academic responsibilities.
o Faculty, through governance, shall have meaningful input to planning, policy development
and decision making that affects the institution, including strategic planning, budget
planning, resource allocations, campus facilities, operations, technology, and matters of
campus development.
o Shared Governance is established under the Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees
o Governance Handbook (2013), prepared and adopted by University Faculty Senate in
collaboration with SUNY System Administration, provides guidance on campus and
university governance, including joint effort, searches, budget and planning.

SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Senate






The Faculty Senate and its Standing and Special Committees form the organizational structure of
campus governance, as the primary means by which the business of the Faculty is conducted.
The Faculty Senate serves as the deliberative and legislative body for organizing and carrying out the
business of the Faculty, deriving its authority under Bylaws prepared and adopted in 1991-1992, in
accordance with the Authority granted under the Policies of the SUNY Board of Trustees (Article X).
The Faculty Senate operates as a representative form of governance, in accordance with
governance standards recommended and practiced by the SUNY University Faculty Senate (UFS).
Procedures for Faculty Senate operation include provisions for open discussion and debate,
transparency and consultation, and with publicized meetings open to the campus community and
dissemination of meeting materials in alignment with SUNY Open Meeting policies.
Faculty Senate acts for the Faculty when the Faculty is not in session.

Organization of the Faculty Senate (as codified in the Faculty Bylaws)


Faculty Senate Chair
o Represents the Faculty internally and externally, including to the University Faculty
Senate and SUNY System Administration.
o Serves as Presiding Officer of the Faculty and presides over meetings of the Faculty, the
Faculty Senate, and meetings of Senate Executive Committee.
o Is referred to as Campus Governance Leader (CGL) by the University Faculty Senate.
o Coordinates and serves ex officio on all Standing Committees of the Faculty.
o Serves ex officio on the College Council and the Old Westbury College Foundation Board
of Trustees.
o Serves ex officio on miscellaneous college-wide and ad hoc committees, for example,
past ex officio service on: Strategic Planning Analysis, Assessment and Review
Committee (SPAAR), Provost’s Task Force on Masters Degrees, President’s Task Force on
Master Plan Amendment, Executive Overview Committee for New Academic Building
Program Study, and Resource Allocation and Budget Planning Committee (RABPC).



Faculty Senate Executive Committee
o Acts for the Faculty when the Faculty Senate is not in session.
o The Executive Committee (EC) is comprised of, in addition to the Faculty Senate Chair,
the Senate Vice Chair, Secretary/Treasurer, University Faculty Senator (also referred to
as the SUNY Senator), the Parliamentarian, and the At-Large Representative to the EC.
o A second/additional At-Large Representative to the EC was approved in 2020-2021 and
2021-2022, following Senate approval of “Resolution on EC Elections”; pending review
by Bylaws Working Group for vetting as proposed amendment to Faculty Bylaws.



Faculty Senate
 Faculty Senate meets on Fridays twice per month during the academic year.
 Faculty Senators (voting members of the Senate) are elected as representatives from the
following constituencies:
o Academic Departments (17)
o The First Year program (1)
o The Library (1)
o Standing committees of faculty governance (7)
o Senators At-Large (5)
o UUP Professionals (3)
o Student Government Association (3)
 The President, Provost, Vice Presidents and Deans are ex officio non-voting members of
the Senate.
 Quorum for conducting Senate business is 19 voting Senators, given current composition.

Role and Responsibilities of Faculty Senators (overview)
 Regularly attend meetings of the Faculty Senate (normally twice per month)
 When a Senator is absent, their Alternate is expected to attend Senate in their place.
 An alternate may vote in the Faculty Senate only in the absence of associated Senator.
 Review all meeting materials (including minutes, reports and resolutions) prior to Senate.
o Be prepared for Senate discussion, debate and action on meeting agenda items.
o Be familiar with Senate procedures for debate and basic Rules of Order, which are
summarized in “Points of Information” available on Faculty Senate website.
 Provide two-way communication between the Senate and constituencies represented.
 Report back to constituencies regarding business and announcements arising at Senate.
 Bring constituency issues and concerns to Senate for deliberation and action.
 Be aware that Senate business may extend beyond academic and curricular matters to
include planning, resources, facilities and operations, student life, technology, campus
development, etc.
 Deliberate and vote in accordance with constituency interests.
 Voting may occur by voice or hand count, by electronic or paper ballot, or by motion for
unanimous consent.
 Write and sponsor or co-sponsor legislation in the form of Resolutions (per UFS standards)
 Volunteer for occasional special assignments or ad hoc committees.

Committees of Governance
Standing Committees of the Faculty (members are elected by the Faculty)
 Academic Policy and Practices Committees (APPC)
o Standing subcommittee: Academic Standing Committee
 Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure Committee (ARPT)
 Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP)
 Faculty Rights and Responsibilities Committee (FRRC)
o Standing subcommittee: Bylaws Working Group
 Faculty University Awards Committee (FUAC)
 Liberal Education Committee (LEC)
 Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)

Special Committees of the Faculty (members serve by appointment)
 Accreditation Program for Experiential Learning (APEL)
 Nominations and Elections Committee (N&E)

College-wide Committees (members include faculty, staff and often students; selection method varies)



Some college-wide committees are codified in the Appendix of Faculty Bylaws, and some have
recently been approved by Faculty Senate as new college-wide committees, pending review by
Bylaws Working Group for vetting as proposed Bylaws amendment.
College-wide committees include those established as Presidential Committees.

 Auxiliary Services Corporation Board of Directors; codified in Faculty Bylaws Appendix.
o Auxiliary Services Corporations, as established on state-operated campuses, are
authorized to operate as not-for-profit financial entities in accordance with SUNY
guidelines (doc. # 9400, 6/16/16), laws of NY state and Internal Revenue Code.
 Campus Green Committee
o Initially established in 2009-2010, re-established 2019-2020. Faculty, staff and
students volunteer for membership or are invited to serve.
o Coordinates with SUNY Sustainability Coalition, NYSERDA REV Campus Challenge,
NYCSHE, and UN Academic Impact program.
 Faculty Judicial Committee; codified in Faculty Bylaws Appendix.
o Faculty Senate approved May 2021 resolution for FJC name change to Faculty
Student Conduct Committee, with consent of College Council, pending review by
Bylaws Working Group for vetting as proposed amendment to Faculty Bylaws.
 ITGAC: Information Technology Governance and Advisory Committee
o ITGAC replaces the ITGC, following Senate approval of May 2021 resolution
o ITGAC is new Presidential Committee and will have greater faculty membership.
 PBC: Planning and Budget Committee
o Standing subcommittees of PBC: Budget Committee and SPAAR Committee
(Strategic Planning Analysis, Assessment and Review)
o Presidential Committee established in summer 2021, after discussions between
President’s Office, Senate Chair and EC; faculty drafted an initial PBC proposal.
o PBC replaces the inactive RABPC (Resource Allocation & Budget Planning
Committee), a college-wide committee codified in Faculty Bylaws Appendix.
 PRODiG: Promoting Recruitment, Opportunity, Diversity, Inclusion and Growth
o Faculty Senate approved May 2021 resolution establishing PRODiG as a collegewide committee (following several years with ad hoc status), pending review by
Bylaws Working Group for vetting as proposed amendment to Faculty Bylaws.
 Student Life Committee (SLC); codified in Faculty Bylaws Appendix.

Ad Hoc and Miscellaneous Committees
The following ad hoc committees and task forces with faculty membership, not an exhaustive list, include
current or recent groups established through faculty governance, administratively or through joint effort.
 Applied Learning Committee
 Campus Safety Committee
 Commencement Committee
 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council
 HLCC: Hispanic Language and Cultures Committee
 IRB: Institutional Review Board
 Micro-credentialing Task Force
 OER: Open Educational Resources
 PARITY: Promote Anti-racist Initiatives This Year (established Oct. 2020)
 Task Force to Enhance and Modernize the Research Enterprise at Old Westbury
(established by Senate approval of May 2021 resolution)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Within the core mission of the State University of New York, the Faculty are called upon:
“To Learn, to Search, to Serve”

Faculty Governance Orientation
September 20, 2021
OVERVIEW of Faculty Governance: Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------The following is excerpted from the Faculty Bylaws, State University of New York/College at Old Westbury (emphasis added).

ARTICLE II: AUTHORITY OF THE FACULTY
The Faculty shall have the responsibility to legislate and act as a policy making body in the
performance of its responsibilities as determined by the Board of Trustees and in keeping with the
standards of Faculty governance recommended by the State University Faculty Senate.
As prescribed in the Policies, Article X, Paragraph 4, the Faculty of the College "shall have the
obligation to participate significantly in the initiation, development, and implementation of the
educational program." The appropriate areas of Faculty involvement include matters of educational
interest and research and of academic policy. The Faculty shall be responsible, individually and
collectively, for,
1. maintaining academic standards;
2. recommending the granting of degrees;
3. developing the College's educational, research, and service programs, and
4. conducting these programs.
Within the educational program, the authority of the faculty in academic matters may extend
beyond policy to operational and institutional issues, including technology, campus facilities and
resource allocations, which impact the ability of the Faculty to effectively discharge their academic
responsibilities. In accordance with the University Senate model and SUNY practices, the faculty
are understood to have an appropriate role as participants in institutional decision making;
participation of the faculty in academic and any broader operational and institutional areas shall
be through formal and systematic consultation through established governance structures and
processes. In these areas Faculty authority is expressed in terms of recommendations.
The Faculty may review administrative actions affecting matters within its area of responsibility. It
may also express, by formal resolution, its opinion on any question relating to the policies or
administration of the College.
Such review, resolution or other action by the Faculty or its committees, taken in accordance with the
consultation provisions of these Bylaws and of the Policies, shall be executed by the Faculty or its
appropriate committees without undue delay; likewise, administrative presentation to the Faculty of
matters requiring consultation shall be timely.
The ultimate responsibility for action taken under these Bylaws is the Faculty when it is in session. It
is the responsibility of the Faculty Senate (see Articles IV and V) to act for the Faculty when the Faculty
Senate is in session and the Faculty is not. It is the responsibility of the Executive Committee (see
Article V, Sect. G) of the Faculty Senate to act for the Faculty when the Faculty Senate is not in session.
It is the responsibility of the Chair of the Faculty Senate (see Article V, Sect. C.1) to act for the Faculty
when the Executive Committee is not in session. Neither the Chair of the Faculty Senate nor the
Executive Committee nor the Faculty Senate can overturn actions of the Faculty.
1