The Chair noted that both the BPC and Capital Planning committee were operating as if the
Gruzen Samton Plan was not relevant.
M. Barrett voiced the assumption that since the BPC and the Capital Plan are not going with
Gruzen Samton, that the President goes along with this as well. Dolan responded that since the
President created both groups, Barrett’s assumption was reasonable. VP Brown said that we
shouldn’t take the Gruzen Samton plan as “all or nothing.” We may adopt parts of the plan.
Dolan did not know the answer to questions about rehab of the dorms or schedule for completion
of the Student Union.
G. Snedeker asked about compliance with ADA laws. Dolan said a lot of the projects are related
to doors, which must be replaced and there was some discussion of more ramps and elevator
repair.
Barrett asked whether Hudson Design would be affiliated with any new buildings that emerged
from the Gruzen Samton plan. The answer was that there are no architects named for the new
buildings. Other questions: Is the President on board for including LIPA projects in the dorms?
Is there a plan for housing in the Day Care facility? The President met with the head of LIPA
and he supported projects, but Dolan reports that no one knows who will make this decision.
The President met with Thomas Murphy of the Dormitory Authority. Everyone is aware of the
need for quality but the time frame is an issue.
Committee Appointments The Chair announced that M. Colaneri has been nominated by the
Exec Committee to CAP, R. Buttermilch to BPC and J. Heller to ARPT. A motion to accept the
nominations passed unanimously.
To insure that BPC has staggered terms for members, half of the current members will draw
straws to determine the length of their commitment. .
Old Business Has
same Senator asked
responded the chair.
lieu of governance.

there been a response from the last letter to DASNY? J. Llana said yes. The
if we have received answers to questions about consultants. Not yet,
Another question: Where are we in resolving issues concerning chairs in
Rosenthal answered that this no longer seems to be a problem.

H. Lewittes will have to consult with Executive Committee regarding membership of General
Education Committee. Vacancies will be filled by appointment.
New Business

On behalf of the Executive Committee, M. Barrett asked about the idea of

having specific parking space in Academic Village for faculty and staff. Rosenthal asked for a
general sense of the meeting to have the Executive Committee take this up with the President. A
discussion of parking followed. There was a rather indefinite sense that someone should study
this, which will be conveyed to the President.
C. Franco asked for a place on the agenda to make a Union report. He commented on the new
stripped-down budget and the problems it raises for us. He asked faculty to contact the state to

complain.
The Chair announced that she will begin future meetings on time.
5,6, 7 minutes she will call off the meeting.

If we don’t have a quorum in

And we will end on time.

M. Barrett announced that Justice Scalia will be honored for legal ethics at Hofstra; PES will

protest this. She also announced a forum on the policies of President Bush on October 10 at 7
p.m. at the Shelter Rock Unitarian Universalist Fellowship, sponsored by the LI Alliance for
Peaceful Alternatives and the LI Progressive Coalition. All are welcome.
W. Shenouda announced that Dianne Stalker is the new Interim Director of the Library.