Planning and Budget Committee (PBC)
DESCRIPTION AND CHARGE
The Planning and Budget Committee (PBC) is a presidential committee with two standing
subcommittees: SPAAR and Budget Committees. Through the PBC, the College’s administration, faculty
governance, students and Union representatives join efforts to 1) help shape the College’s annual
budget and 2) co-facilitate (with Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff) the annual strategic to
budget planning. The PBC will function as an advisory body to the President and the Cabinet to facilitate
the Performance Planning to Budget process (PPB) by providing evidence-based, data-driven analysis,
assessment, and recommendations.
The PBC shall:
•
•

•
•
•
•

Coordinate and oversee the activities of its subcommittees: the SPAAR and the Budget
subcommittees.
PBC, SPAAR and the Budget subcommittees will collaborate with the Cabinet and/or Division of
Business & Finance (B&F). Nevertheless, the management of the budget rest solely with the
Cabinet and/or B&F.
Provide the President with input on budgetary matters and concerns.
Work with the Provost to recommend academic priorities.
Operate with transparency and in compliance with the College’s confidentiality and conflict-ofinterest policies.
Conduct regular meetings including those with the SPAAR and Budget subcommittees; develop
meeting agendas; establish procedures for making decisions and recommendations; and
establish a process for regular assessment of its activities and overall effectiveness.
MEMBERSHIP of the PBC:
Three members of the faculty representing the School of Arts and Sciences
One member of the faculty representing the School of Business
One member of the faculty representing the School of Education
One member of the faculty representing the Library
One member of the faculty at large
Chair of the Faculty Senate
Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff
Provost & Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs
Senior Vice President for Business & Finance & Chief Financial Officer
Special Assistant to the President for Administration and Strategic Initiatives
Assistant to the President for Administration (Chief Operating Officer)
Vice President for Student Affairs
Vice President for Enrollment Services
Vice President for Institutional Advancement
Vice President for Communications
CSEA President or designee
UUP Vice President for Professionals

SGA President or designee
RHA President or designee
SGA Campus Life Senator who is a commuter student and not the SGA President
Membership and voting:
•

•
•

Faculty will be appointed to the PBC and SPAAR and Budget subcommittees by the President
from a slate of nominees provided by the Faculty Senate Chair in consultation with the Executive
Committee and the Faculty Senate. Faculty members on the PBC and the two subcommittees
will elect their faculty co-chairs.
Administrators and staff are appointed to the PBC by the President.
All members have voting rights. The PBC shall establish procedures for making decisions and
recommendations.

SPAAR Committee
(a subcommittee of PBC)
In partnership with the Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff, the SPAAR subcommittee is
responsible for monitoring and reporting on the College’s progress in implementing its Strategic Plan
(“Plan”). Its purpose is to help the College advance its mission and strategic goals.
SPAAR shall:
•
•
•

•
•

•

Support the PPB process, which is intended to plan the upcoming year’s strategic initiatives and
priorities and the related budget/expenditures.
Make recommendations about future budget allocations and reporting based on priorities set in
the PPB process.
In cooperation with B&F and the CFO, ensure that budget priorities are aligned with the
priorities set in the PPB process and that information about the budget is transparently
reported.
Evaluate the overall progress of the implementation of the Plan and the College’s prior year’s
performance against the Plan’s goals, objectives, and timeline.
Support the Middle States Commission on Higher Education Standard VI, which states: “The
institution’s planning processes, resources, and structures are aligned with each other and are
sufficient to fulfill its mission and goals, to continuously assess and improve its programs and
services, and to respond effectively to opportunities and challenges.”
Conduct meetings, at least twice each semester (Fall and Spring); develop meeting agendas;
establish procedures for making decisions and recommendations; and establish a process for
regular assessment of its activities and overall effectiveness.

BUDGET Committee
(a subcommittee of PBC)
In partnership with the Senior Vice President and CFO, the Budget Committee is responsible for
providing meaningful, data-driven, evidence-based input and feedback to the President on budget data,
benchmarks, resources, assessments, and analysis regarding all-funds budget.
The Budget subcommittee shall:
•

•

•

•

•

Provide three members to a new Cost of Attendance Committee (COA), which will be formed by
the President. The COA will build the annual budget through a committee process, that is led by
the CFO (or proxy) and campus leaders who are responsible for revenue streams. The COA
submits the annual budget to the President for approval.
Review the College’s overall budget to ensure the effective allocation of resources to advance
the College’s mission, values, and strategic goals. Thus, the Budget subcommittee will focus its
recommendations to optimize the allocation of resources to prioritize strategic initiatives,
improve cost efficiencies, and add value to the College.
Provide evidence-based, data-driven analyses and recommendations to B&F, the CFO, the
President and the Cabinet. Final authority over budget management and allocation is held by
the Office of the President, the CFO and B&F.
In coordination with B&F, the CFO, the President and the Cabinet, ensure that information and
documents about the budget (e.g., annual Operating Budget and Capital Budget) are
transparently reported. These activities will likely include mid-year and prior year forums, as
well as reports to campus governance bodies. Data access will be in compliance with the
College’s confidentiality and conflict-of-interest policies.
Meet at least twice each semester (Fall and Spring) and once during June, with additional
meetings if necessary.