Resolution for Proposal for
A Micro-Credential in the Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology
WHEREAS, the Department of Psychology proposed a Micro-Credential in the Foundations
of Cognitive Neuropsychology, and
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential would help students develop the basic knowledge of
brain science, cognitive processing, neuropsychiatric developmental disorders, and assessment of
neuropsychological functioning, and
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential would help students gain the skill set that is useful
in the growing field of healthcare1, and
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential consists of four undergraduate courses which are
part of an undergraduate degree and a minor, and
WHEREAS, the proposed micro-credential is built on existing courses and thus requires no
additional resources,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the proposed MicroCredential in the Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology.

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), May 8, 2020
The Proposal approved by CAP on May 8, 2020
[CAP Membership]
Maria C. Bustamante, Tejas Bouklas, Ruomei Gao,Yu Lei, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Lorenz
Neuwirth, Sheyi Oladipo, Frank Sanacory, Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)
1

According to the Office of New York State Comptroller, employment in healthcare occupations are projected to
grow by 14% during 2018-2028.

Micro-credential in the Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology

1

Psychology Department Proposal for Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive
Neuropsychology
A. Purpose
The Psychology Department would like to offer a Micro-credential in The Foundations of
Cognitive Neuropsychology. It is designed for students aspiring towards careers related to the
neurosciences (see*Note for Definition) which are broadly in the Health, Allied Health, Basic
Research/Industry, and Gerontological/Geriatric, and Neuropsychological Testing and
Assessment areas.
The Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology will allow students to
gain a solid foundational grounding in brain science (i.e., anatomy and physiology of the central
nervous system) and the molecular and biochemical basis of information processing with a
specialized focus in cognitive processing, the biological basis of neuropsychiatric developmental
disorders, and related testing and assessment of neuropsychological functioning. In addition,
the knowledge base of the Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology is
specifically related to careers working with populations with cognitive disorders, frontoexecutive disorders/syndromes, developmental disabilities, traumatic brain injury, geriatric and
gerontological populations in rehabilitative and occupational therapy settings.
While the Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology will be available to
all interested students, students majoring in Psychology, Biology, Chemistry and Physics,
Computer Science, and Public Health will be more likely to have taken the pre-requisite courses
and therefore the Micro-credential will be easier to complete. Students majoring in a discipline
other than Psychology will need to complete the specified prerequisites prior to beginning the
courses listed for the Micro-credential. The Micro-credential in the Foundations of Cognitive
Neuropsychology is stackable towards earning the Minor in Neuropsychology (i.e., which is the
second most sought after minor at the College).
*Note: Definition of Neuroscience and related fields
A program that focuses on the interdisciplinary scientific study of the molecular, structural,
physiological, cognitive, and behavioral aspects of the brain and nervous system. Such a
program includes: instruction in molecular and cellular neuroscience, brain science, anatomy
and physiology of the central nervous system, molecular and biochemical bases of information
processing, behavioral neuroscience, biology of neuropsychiatric disorders, and applications to
the clinical sciences and biomedical engineering (NCES, Classification of Instructional Programs
(CIP), CIP Code 261.1
B. Demand
Healthcare employment in New York rose by more than 185% over the past decade, which
resulted in doubling the pace of overall State employment growth. Unlike most industries, New
York’s healthcare sector continued to add jobs throughout this period. This is particularly

Micro-credential in the Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology

2

notable as this period included during and immediately after the recession 2007, as an aging
population presents with the challenges of longer life expectancies, that in turn contribute to
the increased demand for healthcare services. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the State
Department of Labor project continued robust job growth for this employment sector in
coming years.
In particular, the shift in the demographics towards an aging population that is identified in this
underscores the need for future professionals in the healthcare-related profession to have a
solid/foundational understanding of neurophysiological changes over the lifespan and their
relationship to age-related cognitive changes and, as well as, a knowledge of the role of
assessment in the amelioration and alleviation of, or in the prophylaxis for, age-related frontoexecutive disorders/syndromes.
The average annual wages in New York’s healthcare industry has increased continuously over
the past decade. Growth in healthcare wages have outpaced that of other industries over the
same time-period, despite a relative slowdown in the past four years (DiNapoli, 2018;
https://www.osc.state.ny.us/reports/economic/health-care-employment- 2018.pdf ).
Employment of healthcare occupations are projected to grow by 14% from 2018 to 2028, much
faster than the projected average for all other occupations, adding about 1.9 million new jobs.
Healthcare occupations are projected to add more jobs than any other occupation during this
same time-period. This projected growth is mainly due to an aging population, leading to
greater demand for modern and cross-disciplinary healthcare services (DiNapoli, 2018).
The median annual wage for healthcare practitioners and technical occupations (e.g., registered
nurses, physicians and surgeons, and dental hygienists) was $66,440 in May 2018, which was
higher than the median annual wage for all occupations in the economy of $38,640 (i.e., a
58.16% increase; DiNapoli, 2018).
Employment of life, physical, and social science occupations are projected to grow by 7% from
2018 to 2028, faster than the average for all other occupations, which will result in about
97,400 new jobs. Thus, there will be an increasing demand for expertise in the sciences,
particularly in occupations involved in biomedical research, psychology, cognitive disorders,
pharmacology and drug development, energy management, and environmental protection, is
projected to result in employment growth (DiNapoli, 2018).
The median annual wage for life, physical, and social science occupations was $66,070 in May
2018, which was higher than the median wage for all occupations of $38,640 (i.e., a 58.48%
increase; DiNapoli, 2018).
C. Resources
All of the courses listed for the Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive
Neuropsychology are currently offered regularly by the Psychology Department. Therefore,
there will be no additional resource needs to implement the proposed Micro-credential in The

Micro-credential in the Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology

3

Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology at Old Westbury. The Psychology Department has
recently hired a new faculty member that is beginning in the Fall of 2020 that also specializes in
this area to support the course offerings from the Psychology Department.
D. Cost, Financial Aid, Stackability, and Portability
Since the courses in the Micro-credential in the Foundations of Cognitive Neuroscience are part
of the regular course offerings from the Psychology Department, the cost will be same as the
regular per-credit cost for courses taken as part of the regular academic program for students.
Psychology majors will be able to utilize financial aid. For students who are not Psychology
majors, micro-credential courses will be eligible for financial aid if they fall within the college
elective component of the student's degree program (as with a minor).
As stated earlier, the Micro-credential is stackable to the Minor in Neuropsychology, and to the
Psychology major. However, there can only be a one course overlap between the Psychology
major and Minor in Neuropsychology.
The courses required for the Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology
are regular for-credit Old Westbury classes, and therefore will be transferrable to other SUNY
institutions according to their relevant policies. Information about the Micro-credentials will be
included in all marketing materials publicizing this program accordingly in conjunction with
Academic Affairs, the School of Arts and Sciences and the Psychology Department.
E. Title
The proposed name, Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology, is not
the title of any registered degree or certificate program in New York State.
F. Assessment
The Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology will be assessed along
with the Psychology major and Minor in Neuropsychology as part of the regular 5 year Review
conducted by the Department of Psychology.
Additional Materials
The following is the Catalog copy for the proposed Micro-credential:
Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology (16 credits)
The Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology is intended for a broad range of
students interested in careers in Health (e.g., medicine, osteopathy, pharmacy, and veterinary medicine)
and Allied Health (e.g., nursing; occupational, physical, and rehabilitation therapy), psychology, and
forensic/criminal sciences. It is particularly useful for those students interested in careers and
professions related to services for developmental disabilities, special education, clinical and neurological

Micro-credential in the Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology

4

testing, mental health counseling, basic and clinical research. This Micro-credential can be applied to
courses taken in partial fulfillment of the Psychology major, the Neuropsychology Minor, and the preHealth and pre-Allied Health programs of study.

Requirements
Students are required to take 16 credits by completing the listed courses with a grade of “B” or
higher:
Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology
PY 3410 Cognitive Psychology
PY 4403 Cognitive Neuroscience
PY 4610 Clinical Neuropsychology
PY 4401 Developmental Neuropathology
Skills and Competencies to be Gained
The Micro-credential in The Foundations of Cognitive Neuropsychology will provide students
with foundational knowledge and skills:


Anatomy and physiology of the central nervous system and the molecular and
biochemical basis of cognitive higher-order cortical information processing



Specialized focus on cognitive processing and the biological basis of
neuropsychiatric and developmental disorders



Clinical understanding of brain injury and traumatic brain injury at both early and
late developmental stages of life



Clinical neuropsychological testing of fronto-executive disorders/syndromes,
dementias, age-related changes in cognition (e.g., Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s
diseases)



Neurological/neuropsychology testing, measurements, and assessment of
disorders and dysfunctions in comparisons to health individuals



Be able to communicate this knowledge effectively