State University of New York
College at Old Westhury
TO:

Naomi Rosenthal, Chair
Faculty Senate

FROM:

Maureen Dolan, Faculty Senator

DATE:

April 19, 2002

SUBJ:

Corrections to the Minutes of April 5, 2002

I am providing the following corrections to the Minutes of April 5, 2002 Faculty Senate meeting,
under item #5 (my report on Capital Plan Work Group) and item #6 (discussion on BPC resolution).
5.

Capital Plan (M. Dolan):

please amend as follows, to more accurately reflect my report.

“The Capital Plan Work Group met on March 21* to recap the 2003/2008 Capital Plan; to review

information on facilities priorities provided by Bill Kimmins; and to discuss current capital projects
and planned energy projects. The 2003/2008 Capital Plan, which identifies and prioritizes over 600
individual projects, provides a blueprint of the college’s needs in the way of Critical Maintenance and
Plant Adaptation. The projected total cost of Old Westbury’s next capital plan is $105Million. Systemwide, over $5Billion in capital plan requests have been received, but only $2Billion in capital funds
thus far identified. If Old Westbury receives funding in the area of $40Million (a figure mentioned last

summer), then we would be funded at about 40% of our needs - a proportion typical of entire system.”
“Consultants for the capital plan (retained by the State University Construction Fund) have provided

the campus with several copies of the bound final report they submitted to Albany. The final report

includes the narrative and all documents produced by the campus team, as well as photographs and
engineering reports. As Chair of the Capital Plan Team, I’m recommending that one of the report
copies be placed on file either in the Faculty Senate Office or the Library. This 2003/2008 Capital Plan
represents a successful collaborative effort of all campus constituencies.”

6. Discussion .... on the Budget and Planning Committee:
I note that comments from the BPC Chair are not currently included in the Minutes. Please insert the
following under item b. after 4" bullet:
“The BPC Chair expressed serious concerns about the size and composition of the Budget Work
Group, and the means by which this work group was reformulated. The Budget Work Group was

reformulated without the input or approval of the committee chair, which in itself circumvents a

motion passed by the Budget and Planning Committee at its last meeting on January 31. The size,
composition and planned activities of this large subcommittee make it a mathematical certainty that
the full committee is rendered superfluous.”
“The BPC

Chair referred to correspondence between the BPC Chair and Vice Chair, on the subject of

the Budget Work Group, which she asked [the secretary pro tem] to be attached to the Minutes.”

Please note that the correspondence which was asked to attached is missing from the Minutes, and
should be attached to the Minutes of April 19, 2002. Thank you for your attention this matter.
c. Senate Executive Committee