Teaching and Learning Resource Committee (TLRC)
                          Annual Report AY 2012–13
(This report includes changes in membership, meeting times, events, other
activities – including survey feedback, and recommendations offered to the
incoming committee)

A. Summary of Committee Activity and Focus

Focus
TLRC has worked diligently during the academic year in accordance with its
charge and purpose, particularly as it relates to the Teaching and Learning
Center, summarized as follows:
   1. Promote, support, and facilitate best practices and innovations in
      teaching and learning, focusing on faculty growth and assisting junior
      faculty in the practice of teaching.
   2. Communicate and coordinate the open and interdisciplinary exchange of
      ideas, modes of instruction, and pedagogical tools/resources, which
      characterize an effective teaching and learning environment that
      improves student learning outcomes especially across disciplinary
      contexts.
   3. Organize faculty workshops that are responsive to the relevant
      pedagogical issues of the College, which include for example classroom
      management techniques, and the appropriate use/integration of
      technology in instruction and information management.
   4. Promote synergy between teaching and research, including presentation
      by scholars and speakers (internal and external).
   5. Sustain an environment that promotes quality of life, faculty
      development and collaborations

B. Officers/Members
Alireza Ebrahimi (chair) and Duncan Quarless (assistant to the chair)( were
elected to serve as co-chairs of the TLRC for 2011-2012. Committee members
for this past academic year included Rita Buttermilch, Amy Hsu, Samara
Smith and Lisa Whitten (resigned from TLRC); Student Representative,
Camilla Swasey; ex-officio, Ed Bever, Stephen Kirkpatrick, Marc Seybold.
All members were actively engaged in planning and facilitating events
during both semesters.

C. Meeting Times
September 7, 2012; December 5, 2012; February 6, 2013; April 10, 2013.

D. Events
   1. TLC Faculty Orientation, September 21, 2012
   2. Student Response System (hands-on demo/presentation) e-Instruction,
      February 21, 2013
   3. Powerpoint Voiceover, February 25 and 26, 2013
   4. Google +, March 18 and 19, 2013
   5. The Contextual Influences of Academic Integrity (special virtual
      presentation), March 20, 2013
   http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/education/studies-show-more-students-
   cheat-even-high-achievers.html?_r=1&emc=tnt&tntemail1=y
   6. The 9th Annual Old Westbury Conference, April 26, 2013
   7. [pic]POGIL (Process-Oriented Guided Inquiry Learning), May 21, 2013

Notes:  Hurricane Sandy, its aftermath and other weather-related conditions
impacted on some of the planning and activities of the TLRC which included
our desire to host a Getting to Tenure workshop and the Critical Thinking
Colloquium.  The POGIL workshop we were able to reschedule.

E. Other TLRC Activities
   1. Preliminary Proposal to Re-establish Physical Facility for the TLC
      (Purpose and rationale received a vote of acclamation, authorizing the
      TLRC to proceed with efforts to compile necessary information for a
      budgetary proposal.)
   2. Follow-up campus-wide needs assessment and development of budgetary
      proposal for TLC: TLRC requested assistance from department chairs,
      conducted interviews particularly with ex-officio members (as the
      representatives of their respective areas of authority and
      responsibility), and conducted an end-of-year survey.  See
      Recommendations moving forward.
   3. Raffle money collected at our annual conference was given to the Old
      Westbury garden.
   4. Some Survey/Attitudinal Assessments/Feedback
     a. TLC 9th Annual Full Day Faculty Conference (Survey – Summarized, 39
        respondents)
         • 64% of the respondents attended the annual conference.
         • A few respondents indicated that the conference date was
           included in a very busy week of campus scheduling (that included
           such things as Research Day and Convocation)
         • (Based upon the 26 attendees who responded) The attendance was
           the highest at the beginning of the day and substantially
           diminished after lunch (from 73% to 19%)
         • Of the three presentations done by external speakers (for those
           responding), the keynote was rated as the most
           interesting/helpful and the dissemination presentation on e-
           Portfolios was rated as the least interesting/helpful.
         •  There was greater satisfaction with the time-based management
           of the early presentations of the day and less so as the day
           progressed.
         • A number of other comments were offered as suggestions to
           improve the annual conference.  The following are included here
           as a sampling: begin a selection process that may also reduce
           the number of presentations and provide possibly a bit more time
           per presenter, have a greater emphasis on the academic tone and
           quality of the conference – allotting less time for the non-
           academic elements (e.g. Chartwell presentation), have a stricter
           adherence to the time schedule.

     b. TLC Fall 2012-Spring 2013 (AY survey – Summarized, 37 respondents)
         • Roughly 1/3 (~33%) attended at least one TLRC event/activity,
           roughly 2/25 (~8%) attended several TLRC events/activities [and
           roughly 19% of the respondents had an attendance somewhere in
           between], roughly 2/5 (~40%) did not attend any TLRC
           events/activities
         • (Of the approximately 60% who attended TLRC events/activities,
           including those who attended more than one) Greater than 3/4 of
           these respondents attended the annual conference, followed by
           roughly a bit more than 1/4 attending the orientation.  The
           other events/activities had an attendance/participation of 1/5
           (~20%) or less.
         • Although not strictly correlated, a similar pattern appeared in
           the value rating for TLRC events/activities.  Notably, although
           the orientation was the 2nd most attended event for the
           respondents it ranked much lower in its value rating according
           to the value rating percentages.
         • A variety of things were made as requests:
            Technology training/online resource –  (“how to”) how to use
      voiceover PPTs,  Blackboard Captivate, Screencasts for on-line
      classes, and online technology tools    (either access to certain
      online databases or helps to sort through and incorporate the
      more effective uses of technology for instruction), and impacts of
      technology on    inquiry-based learning (in science and presumably
      other subject areas);

            Methods for improving the management/quality of the
      instructional    environment and related student impacts – academic
      integrity issues (e.g. ethics and       plagiarism), decorum, and
      engagement (including active learning   strategies such as    bringing
      experiential learning to the classroom, problem-based learning, use of
      “role       play”, etc.;

            Addressing the pedagogy of the lower division – (especially
      English     competency       and presumably Math as well)

            Faculty development for grantsmanship – (a bridging faculty
      development for  research and teaching – different kind of “how to”)
         • One faculty person offered to present at least one workshop
           related to any of the following: incorporating field
           work/experiential learning in instruction; the use of direct
           personal action for active learning and learning assessment;
           cooperative learning (use of group discussion); methods
           workshop/presentation on one or more areas pertaining to
           improving the management and quality of the learning
           environment. (I have to note that at least one other faculty
           person, outside of this survey, offered to conduct a workshop on
           the use of the Mathematica software technology to improve
           student learning outcomes in applicable subject areas)
         • Respondents would like to know more about MOOCs; “Flipped vs.
           blended” classroom; developing students’ research skills in
           coursework; the use of student feedback in online course
           assessments (specific reference was made to a calculus-based
           physics course at SUNY New Paltz); and a shared resource type
           inquiry was made, suggesting I presume that the TLRC explore
           potential synergies between TLCs at OW and Farmingdale as a
           means to broaden more cost-effective impacts.

F. Recommendations moving forward (including needs):
   1. Host a series of informal best practices discussion at common hour.
      Identify 2-3 people who are willing to present on a common topic (such
      as using rubrics or writing effective assignment sheets or using small
      groups, etc.).  Each person would have 5 minutes to present and then
      the rest of the 50 minutes would be devoted to conversation.  (S.
      Smith)
   2. Collect examples and make them available to new faculty online (via
      our LMS or a simple website).  Survey to seed these sessions in the
      early fall? (S. Smith)
   3. On the basis of the limited responses from the chairs this past year,
      use those departments which have responded to help establish some of
      the initial activities of the TLRC in the fall.
   4. Ask departments as organized bodies to submit suggestions about
      proposed workshops or requested topics.  Possibly also ask departments
      to consider the selection of an advisor to the TLRC (which could serve
      as the communicant representative for the department).  Members of the
      TLRC could perhaps ask to be included in a department meeting to more
      formerly make such requests?
   5. Continue the process for the establishment of a TLC facility beyond
      virtual spaces (including a more formal resource/budgetary process),
      consistent with the charge and purpose of the TLRC.
   6. Continue to assess our resource for best practice in teaching across
      disciplines on the campus.  Use the potential preparation of a
      “Conversations in the Disciplines” proposal
      (http://www.suny.edu/provost/academic_affairs/Conv_Disc_Pro.cfm) as
      one of the means to galvanize the focus on teaching practice on the
      campus.
   7. Inquire of the faculty as to how we are currently using the standard
      SUNY software licenses which are available on the campus: ESRI
      -Geographic Information System, Mathematica, Maple, Minitab.  Marc
      Seybold reported that we have access to an open source version of
      SPSS, which may be currently in use by a faculty member in the
      classroom (along with access to SPSS with a campus license for a more
      limited number of users).



( Subsequently was elected as Faculty Senate Secretary, and according to
the bylaws, Article V, Sect. G, could no longer officially serve as TLRC
(chair/co-chair)