5



STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, November 1, 2019 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location S 1000



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes



Roster of Senators Present:  Andrew Mattson (Chair), Christa Devirgilio (Secretary/Treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, Math/CIS), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At-Large Rep to the EC, C&P)), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Laura Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At Large), Helidon Gjergji (Senator At Large), Roger Mayer (AC), Jillian Nissen(BS), Camile Jones (C&P), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Edislav Manetovic (LEC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Erin Toolis (PY), Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young Park (Math & CIS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez (Professional), Deepa Jani (EN)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS)



Visitors: Jacob Heller, Claudia Marin Andrade, Duncan Quarless, Kerry Weir, Fernando Nieto, Antonia DiGregorio, Joanne Spadaro, Chante Hope, Ashley Lien, Cris Notaro, 



Roster of Senators Absent: Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), Jingyi Song (HP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Amanda Frisken (CAP), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Runi Muhkerji (University Senator Alternate), Blidi Stemm (CE), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH), Ashley Alvarado (SGA)





			  0.	Meeting arrival and sign in	12:20 p.m.

			

			  I.	Call to Order	12:36 p.m.		

			

			 II.	Approval of minutes for October 18, 2019

			There were no corrections or amendments to the Minutes.

Motion to approve the Minutes was seconded. Approval by voice vote of 10/18/19 minutes as submitted. 



			III.	Chair’s Report	

			Two things: Point One is financial cancellation. We had one over the summer and we will have one by the end of the semester. The question is, how should this be handled. In the past, there has been a task force. The president has requested that 2 faculty members be nominated to serve on the Financial Cancellation Task Force. We would give those two members names to the president and President Butts would sign off on it, what this taskforce would do is to make a recommendation as to if the cancellation should happen. 

			Very important committee, faculty must be willing to stand up to vice presidents. 

			We may have one continuing faculty member Mandy Frisken who has served before and is willing to continue, if necessary. 

			If you know anyone, you can talk to them directly or tell me and I will reach out to them. Time-sensitive, however. The taskforce meets once. Not an enormous amount of work. 

			Would be wonderful if he can send names of 2 tenured or tenure-track faculty members. 

			Point Two is the next Senate meeting on November 15. The President of the University Senate, Gwen Kay (from SUNY Oswego) will be here. She will arrive on campus around 9 or 10a.m., will meet the president and provost, and with the EC, then come for the first hour of the Senate meeting. If you have questions for her, SUNY-wide questions for her, she is not here to tell us anything. However, she is on a listening tour to hear what SUNY campuses have to say that may be taken up by the larger body that is the SUNY Senate. Gwen Kay also is a member of the SUNY Board of Trustees. 

			If any of you would like to meet with her, we do have a window between 10 and 11 for people who are interested or may wish to serve on SUNY Senate. We would like other faculty members to learn more about governance. 



			IV.	Provost Report

			Duncan Quarless reported: Frank Pizzardi has given a presentation concerning enrollment to two bodies here on campus, and would like to present also to the Senate. Will take a half hour.

			Must make senators aware of how we appoint adjuncts. Some of you may have heard that we have gotten backlogged with getting adjuncts set up properly. Of course, continuing adjuncts are easier to process than new adjuncts. 

			If you are a continuing adjunct we keep with the same ID for payroll. We have a lot of these ID numbers, getting these faculty into what is the faculty domain in Banner as quickly as possible. A sheet was passed out that explains this process. 

			Two other items in the provost report - and one has to do with PRODIG

			We have a governance committee for PRODIG and we have a list of the members of that committee - the initial PRODIG committee as well as diversity and inclusion council. It does have faculty representation on it.  That council essentially supports diversity strategic plan for the campus

			Discussion and some comments about the items on the Provost report.

			Mentioned Adjunct Action form & Salary Delays document from 10/18/19 secretaries meeting (see attached)

			

			V. 	University Senator’s Report (Laurie Morris)

			Laurie’s report on the recent University Senate Plenary was sent via email.

			Presidential searches, conversation about this is strong in SUNY Senate, the confidential search is what people across SUNY were very concerned about.

			There was also a handout. Detailed discussion of her written report as well as the handout regarding presidential search, programming and saving the college money.

			Big push to deal with student mental health issues, including anxiety and depression.

			Elsevier contract negotiations: SUNY has been in negotiations, with contract scheduled to be gone this year. University of California has already backed out, giving our system some courage; the librarians are dealing with these negotiations.

			SUNY Oneonta had a scare in September: there were reports of an active shooter on campus. Nobody had a plan specific to active shooting. Nevertheless, in terms of our campus, Andy said there is a plan and there are drills, but more needs to be done. A conversation about protocol is in the works.

			      

			VI.     Presidential Search & College Council  

			Status of College Council: can it provide a quorum, are there enough legitimate members?

			Question regarding the Chair of the College Council: email from President Butts to Andy, cc’ing the Chancellor. Statement based on Dr. Butts’ meeting with the Chancellor on October 18th, a term for College Council member is 7 years (per SUNY Policies). Most of the terms of Old Westbury Council members have expired. Even though someone’s term has expired, does not mean they cannot serving as members. Next College Council meeting is December 13th. New Council members are appointed by the Governor. The Governor’s office has not appointed or reappointed members on our campus since 2014. We need to get the Governor to appoint new council members. 

			On the issue of the College Council Chair, that person is usually also the Chair of the Search Committee. Only the governor can appoint the College Council Chair. The college can choose one but its technically not legit. Dr. Mario Mignone was technically not a governor-appointed college council chair, so can we do this again? Nevertheless, administration keeps everything behind closed doors. There is no transparency, so if one is chosen, we will not know until it is already done.

			Senator commented that College Council has core role in Presidential Search, also essential role defined in Education Law and SUNY Board of Trustees Policies. College Councils are expected to build relations between their campuses and communities, to advocate for faculty and students, and to advocate for college initiatives.

			College Council meetings are indeed public, recorded and posted to the website.

			The parliamentarian called attention to the handout with information on Presidential Search Process & College Council, and compilation of related questions (see attached)



			B.  Progress of the Presidential Search Committee

			The search process is on hold until the Council meets up again.

			The search firm has reportedly been selected. There was a committee set up to select the search firm that does the heavy lifting in terms of the search.. These are people in the business of doing academic presidential searches.

			Selection of Search firm is not the same as the Presidential Search Committee.

			More transparency has been requested. Faculty representation in selection of Search firm does not seem to be there, although six faculty were elected to Presidential Search Committee in May. We were not informed who other members of the committee are. We have had no say in search firm selection. Transparency and inclusion have not been provided.  

			 Transparency and inclusion existed up until the choice of the six faculty members.

			Someone commented that there should be less concern about how the search firm was picked, and more emphasis on presidential search committee during interview phase 



			C. Also question on the interim president 

			The current administration is in no rush to appoint a new president. Waiting for College Council appointment of new Chair. They are reluctant to force the issue and are willing to slow down, but what they are working on this issue without faculty consultation is preparing for interim president

			Only role formally spelled out for faculty in SUNY Policies is in the permanent search. It is not mandated that faculty be involved in interim president. 

			We are looking at 1 to 2 years for the search process.

			SUNY Senator commented that the Chancellor has already appointed 5 interim presidents SUNY-wide. They have all been external appointments. None of the interims has been selected internally from campuses.

			Another Senator commented that, going back 3 decades, SUNY also appointed Interim Presidents to Old Westbury from System Administration. It is standard practice to name Interim from SUNY System. Not standard practice for outgoing presidents to   name their own successor.     

			Lots of concern about faculty representation. Discussion by Senators and other faculty present that the Chair of Senate be our advocate. 

			We must decide on saying something to SUNY  Board of Trustees by November 15th which is our next Senate meeting

				

			

			VII. 	Old Business 

			PRODIG Committee – Process Advocate

			

			VIII.	New Business

			A. TLRC Annual Report (Ashok Basawapatna): The report is in the packet. Motion to receive and accept TLRC report. Seconded. Report was received by the Senate by voice vote, without dissent. TLRC hosted many events that were well received. November 12th is the next event. 

			

			Elsevier/Science Direct Negotiations (Antonia DiGregorio)

			 	https://libguides.oldwestbury.edu/elsevier

			There was a website created to go over Elsevier negotiations with SUNY. Old Westbury only uses .27% of Science Direct, we do not use it enough for what they charge. Over the past few years, Old Westbury has sent $250,000 dollars to Elsevier. 

			If we cannot meet the negotiation with Elsevier then there are some alternatives. 

			You can get a NYS library card and get Science Direct that way, also you can get citations through google scholar and request them through 

			They are charging you for open access journals then charging again for access and charging authors article processing fees to publish in their journals

			If we go with the current contract SUNY will have spent over 10 million dollars by 2022, so far only 9 SUNY’s have agreed to pay the amount, which of course are the bigger institutions that would not be affected so much.

			If SUNY loses Science Direct there are other options. We can always get what is needed through interlibrary loan. Old Westbury Library will pay for articles when needed

			Questions regarding cost analysis break down for articles accessed through interlibrary loan. 



			Applied Learning Task Force Resolution (Edslav Manetovic)

			

			The resolution was read out loud. Motion on the floor was seconded to allow discussion. Chair noted 4 minutes for discussion. Vote will take place at next Senate meeting.

			

			

			IX.	Announcements / Sharing of Concerns  

			Ali Ebrahimi: First Town Hall on proposed revisions to Faculty Bylaws and ARPT Manual. This went well, but more people need to attend and get involved. There is one more Town Hall on revised ARPT Manual: Thursday, November 7, from 5 to 7pm in NAB 1100.

			Maureen Dolan: NYS Assembly Public Hearing on Environmental Conservation in Higher Ed, November 13 in Legislative Building, Albany. Chancellor’s office will be providing testimony. Opportunity to provide input on campus needs and initiatives related to renewable energy initiatives, green buildings, climate action, raising awareness.

			Jacob Heller gave update on Middle States Working Groups.	

			

			X.   	Adjournment 	2:30p.m.