SUNY / College at Old Westbury

Faculty Senate
Meeting Minutes - December 7, 2001

Present: N. Rosenthal, R. Colon-Urban, J. Lloyd, M. Dolan, C. Butts, A. Bonnett, L. Davis, M.
M. Bell, J. Llana, W. Shenouda, M. Colaneri, C. Franco, I. Ahmed, A. Martinez, M. Teloki, A.
Barbera, A. Frisken, M. Keizer, C. Hobson, H. Lewittes, G. Snedeker, S. Meindl
Visitors: W. Kimmins, M. Jones, R. Gonzalez, R. Welton, N. Sacks, C. Wardell, R. Buttermilch,
M. Feder-Marcus, F. Millan, M. Rankin

1. Approval of Minutes
Corrections to the November 9" minutes:
Page 2, item 3e:
in May or June,
b. Page 2, item 4a:
Senator’s query
a.

The last sentence should read, “The student union is due to be completed
the dormitories in August 2002.”
Questions about the activities of the College Foundation followed a
regarding a request for the dollar amount that President Butts’ fund-raising

has brought to the college as of this date. Senators requested an accounting of how those

dollars have been allocated. It was in this context that Mr. Brown responded that the
Development Office would need three years to develop momentum. The chair will invite
Mr. Brown to report on fund raising activities at a Spring Senate meeting.
c. Page 2, item 4e: The second sentence should read, “Dr. Bonnett reported that dormitory-

related workers are protesting the lack of a union representative on campus.”

The minutes were accepted unanimously as amended.
2. Chair’s Report (Rosenthal)

meade

a.

The senate Executive Board met with President Butts on December 3. The agenda
included a request for data for the BPC, drafting of the mission statement, criteria for

sabbaticals, Teamsters’ issues on campus, the Senate position on DSI, and the President’s
attendance at Senate meetings.
Dr. Bonnett has informed the senate that the CIS and Mathematics Departments have been
merged, with one member of CIS joining the Business department.
There is no further information on the fate of unexpended common hour funds.

The student life committee is about to be reestablished.
The chair is seeking a senate representative to the Faculty University Awards Committee.

Senate received from I. Cotton, Administrative Assistant to the President, a correction to
the October 26" minutes that clarifies BPC subcommittee structure and function. Because
these corrections were received after the minutes were approved at the November 9"
meeting, they cannot be altered. The corrections are appended to these minutes.

Faculty are encouraged to contribute to SEFA.

3. Budget and Planning Committee Report (Dolan)
a. Faculty members of the BPC met on November 28" to assess the functioning of the
committee. The consensus was that there are serious problems, and M . Dolan was asked
to summarize the issues for presentation to the Senate. The summary, attached., identifies a
number of problems, including lack of information, lack of an effective planning process and
failure to address concerns raised by Middle States.
Drafts of the charge and action plan for the Capital Plan and Data Collection and Analysis
workgroups were presented and are attached to these minutes.
4. Questions / Comments
a. M. Dolan identified some specific problems preventing the committee from functioning although some materials requested from Mr. Davis were provided, there is still much

information that has not, despite verbal, mail and email requests. This includes requests for

the current year’s budget.
A senator distributed a draft resolution regarding faculty participation on the BPC
Committee to be discussed at the next faculty meeting. The resolution is attached to the
agenda for the next senate meeting. Faculty representatives to BPC will be asked to attend
this meeting.
5. President’s Report (C. Butts)
a. In response to the Chair’s report on his meeting with the Executive Board, President Butts
noted that he did agree to appoint a committee to develop a mission statement, and that he
did agree to attend this senate meeting.

. Regarding problems on campus with the Teamsters union, Dr. Butts explained that all
employees are union, but are disputing the appointment of a gatekeeper at the work site.

The issue is under discussion between CAB and the teamsters is in court, but construction is

moving well.

President Butts was troubled to learn that faculty feel he is acting in bad faith in the budget
and planning process, and assured senators that he takes Middle States’ comments
seriously. He has been assured that we will receive $3.3 million in strategic planning funds

this year, but there are no assurances for the future. He noted that Mr. Davis only came to
the campus in August. It has been difficult to decipher past records, which need to be
understood before being shared. He expressed his hope that faculty will not withdraw from
the process.
Recent progress on campus includes improved retention statistics, increased enrollment

yield, the initiation of the common hour, a successful major fund-raising event, hiring of

new faculty, improved maintenance and the repair of Academic Village plaza.
Dr. Butts will try to resolve sabbatical issues.
Dr. Butts encouraged faculty to reach out to students who lost friends and relatives in the
crash of the Dominican Republic flight.

6. Questions/ Comments

a. A senator asked about the campus admissions category. Dr. Butts responded that our plan
to move from category 5 to 4 was deemed too aggressive by SUNY. Instead, we are

moving to category 3 within three years. M. Marquez Bell presented the statistics for the
current semester: 67% in category 4, 21% in 3, 4% in 2, less than 1% in category 1.

b. In discussing union issues, Dr. Butts said that the NLRB supported moving the issue to
court.
7. Academic Vice President Report (A. Bonnett)
a. Dr. Bonnett presented the December graduates to the faculty.

The list was approved

unanimously.
b. Dr. Bonnett discussed the dire budget situation, stating that we have been underfunded
consistently and are short-staffed. We are not in a position to tolerate any cuts, or to
backslide on new initiatives such as graduate programs and new faculty hires.

8.

Questions /Comments

a. Budget challenges were identified at a campus meeting on December 6" with the vice
chancellor. No faculty were present. He expects to share information from that meeting

with the BPC and other constituencies as soon as he can.
b. Regarding new hires, Dr. Bonnett said that the campus expected new funds to enable him to
extend these appointments into the future.
c. A senator proposed the following motion:

These monies can no longer be expected.

The Senate expresses its solidarity with the Academic Vice President in his stated refusal
to be a party to any proposed retrenchment of the faculty, including those positions

created in academic year 2001-2002.

The motion passed unanimously [19-0-0].
9. External Review of Programs (M. Colaneri)
CAP submitted a resolution stipulating how external reviewers are to be selected (attached).
Dr. Bonnett distributed a document containing an overview of the Academic Program Review
process, including external evaluations (attached) . He indicated that he was willing to put the
language of the CAP resolution into item 4 of the document.
The CAP resolution passed unanimously [19-0-0].
10. General Education Assessment (H. Lewittes)
Dr. Lewittes introduced the Assessment Plan for Gen Ed (attached). The plan was approved
by the Gen Ed Committee. SUNY’s GEAR group requires each campus to design its own

assessment plan, and to obtain faculty support in the form of a vote.

She specified that the

goal of this activity is curriculum assessment, not assessment of the impact of the Gen Ed
program on recruitment or other issues. The plan and schedule for implementation were
explained briefly.
The Gen Ed assessment plan was approved [18-0-1].
11. University Faculty Senate Report (M. Dolan)
Dr. Dolan requested faculty input on the proposed tuition increase, in order to represent Old
Westbury’s view at the mid-January Senate meeting. Under Governor Pataki, the state has
decreased SUNY funding, and there is no reason to believe that increased tuition will translate
into increased campus funding.
There was general agreement that the body will not support a tuition increase.
12. Resolution on the War in Afghanistan (G. Snedeker)
There was an initial objection to introducing the resolution.
objection was not sustained [7-10-0].

A vote was taken and the

The discussion clarified the resolution, which is a statement of non-support for President
Bush’s policy in Afghanistan.

Although one senator felt there was insufficient time to discuss

this issue, others felt that it was timely and should not be delayed until February. The
resolution is not a statement of universal pacifism, but rejects the use of violence in this specific
instance.
A vote failed to support the resolution [4-4-6].
13.

Old Business

R. Colon-Urban announced that CSEA has asked Senate for a contribution on behalf of S.

Guralnik, an employee who is ill. We also are obligated to find a way to contribute to WTC
employees.