Point of Information: Basic Rules of Order 



Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan) 

Faculty Senate Meeting of September 21, 2018



Background:

The SUNY Old Westbury Faculty Senate follows basic parliamentary procedure, consistent with standard practices of the University Faculty Senate (UFS). 



The Chair of the Faculty Senate, also referred to by SUNY as the Campus Governance Leader (CGL), presides over Senate and Faculty meetings. 



The Chair has considerable discretion in meeting conduct and procedures (with occasional input from the Parliamentarian, when appropriate).    





Some Procedural Basics:  

Scheduled speakers and scheduled reports have the Senate floor for the time allotted on published meeting agenda. 



An agenda item may (or may not) include time for Q&A or comment period. The Chair has discretion to extend agenda time (or not) for Q&A or comment period. 



Senators are normally expected to allow scheduled speakers to conclude their remarks or reports before any Q&A or comment period.



A Senator raising a “Point of Information” may interrupt a scheduled speaker to seek clarification  or to provide clarification  of a specific point. This is not considered an infraction of Order.   



Order during Q&A or comment period:

Persons with questions or comments should raise their hand to be recognized. Such persons will normally be recognized by the Chair in sequence of hands raised. (The Chair may defer to the scheduled speaker to conduct the Q&A.)  



A Senator may “yield time” to a person having a question or comment who is a visitor to the Senate, and who raised their hand to be recognized. 



The Chair may also ask that a Senator please yield time to a non-Senator so that the visitor may have the floor.       



 



(Consideration of Resolutions: please see reverse side)



Consideration of Resolutions (some basics):

Resolutions are typically presented to the Senate under New Business, then debated and acted upon in a subsequent meeting as Old Business. This provides opportunity for Senators to discuss Resolutions with colleagues and constituency groups. 



If a Resolution deals with time-sensitive matter(s), the Chair has discretion to allow the Resolution presentation, debate and action in single session. 



Resolutions are normally read into the record by sponsor(s). The Chair may allow a summary instead of complete reading of Resolution when text is lengthy. 



Resolutions motions must be seconded in order to open the floor to debate. 



The Chair is responsible for conducting the discussion/debate (with occasional input from the Parliamentarian, when appropriate).    



Senators will argue “For or Against” the Resolution on the floor. Extraneous commentary, speaking out of turn or lack of courtesy may be ruled “Out of Order”. 



During debate, the Chair will recognize speakers per basic rules of order described above (re. Q&A/comment period). 



The Chair has discretion to limit speaker(s) to an allotted time, especially when many are in queue waiting to speak. 



Any Amendments to a Resolution on the floor must be acted upon prior to action on the main Resolution. Amendments and related motions must be seconded in order to be discussed/debated. 



Actions on Amendments and related motions are sequenced in reverse (per LIFO: last amendment to be proposed is first amendment to be disposed). 



Voting (a few basics): 

The Chair has discretion when to move to a vote. The Chair may sometimes ask for an informal “Sense of the Senate” to determine if unanimous consent is feasible. 



A Senator may seek to end debate by “Calling the Question”. In this instance, the Senate will vote whether or not to end debate on a motion or matter on the floor. “Yes” vote on “Calling the Question” will end debate, and the Chair will then move to a vote on the motion or matter on the floor. “No” vote will continue debate.   



Voting on Amendments and Resolution is in the form of Yes, No or Abstain, and may be by voice vote or hand count. Ex officio members of the Senate do not vote.  



Voting by paper ballot (confidential) may possibly be requested by Senator(s), normally in advance of a scheduled vote.