Due to a number of resignations, the following people were elected to committees:
Academic Policy - Madeline Crocitto
Academic Standing - Madeline Crocitto
Faculty Rights and Responsibilities - Jane Weiss
Other personnel did not receive the 30% of the vote required to assume committee
membership. A motion by A. Barbera was passed unanimously: The Nominations
Committee should move down the committee elections results list accepting candidates
by the number of votes received.
The Chair distributed a calendar of scheduled Senate and full faculty meetings,
which was unanimously approved (attached). Please encourage new faculty to attend.

6. Old Business
R. J. Edelson announced the child care center is open with four inclusion classrooms.
Please announce to students.

7. New Business
I. Assa announced the new residence hall is open. In response to a suggestion by C.
Sawyer, he will offer a tour after the full faculty meeting on September 19.
New faculty members on the BPC will be announced soon.
M. Marquez Bell informed us that we reached 96% of our goals re total head count;
99% FTEs; 100% of first time to college; 95% of transfer students.
S. O’Connor announced the Service Learning Institute will have its first meeting
on Tuesday, September 16, 2003 at 12:45 p.m. in room C 016. All are invited.
R. Brown reminded faculty that applications for grants are due October 15th. Brian
Madden will succeed Robert McMillan as Chair of the Research Foundation. He would
like to speak for five minutes at the full faculty meeting on September 19th.

Nancy Sacks invited everyone to visit the new offices of the FYE in the Student
Union after the tour of the new residence facility.

David Oyero, SGA, reminded faculty of the important role they play on campus,
which is the second home to students. He would like to improve ties between commuter
students and residents. He asked faculty and students to call X 3274 with information
about interests, problems, etc.

The meeting was adjourned at 2:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted 9/17/03,
Madeline Crocitto