Planning and Budget Committee (PBC) Self-Nomination Results  (6/2021)

Name

Which subcommittee(s)?

On SPAAR?

Please describe below your qualifications for strategic planning and budgeting.  A half-page response (2500 characters) is recommended.

Frank Sanacory (School of Arts and Sciences)

Budget Committee

No

I have been a professor here at the College at Old Westbury now finishing my 14th year.  I watched how we managed to make it through the 2008 financial crisis and observed and participated in our growth over the last few years.  With the birth dearth the horizon and what appears to be a continuation of lowered state funding, we will need to adjust, be more efficient and be more creative in generating income.  I would like contribute to this mission.


Mini CV

Positions
Associate Professor of Mathematics 
Chair of the Department of Mathematics and Computer & Information Science
Director of MS in Data Science


Relevant Committee service
Strategic Plan Steering committee
Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee chair

Academic Fields
Data Science and Mathematics

Lorenz Neuwirth (School of Arts and Sciences)

SPAAR and Budget Committee

No

I have much experience with managing budgets related to research on college campuses with national/federal agencies.  I have also served on the Auxiliary Services Corporation (ASC) Board of Trustees at the College for the last four years.  I have a tireless work ethic and I am deeply committed to ethical and honest work.  If selected, I will ensure that my data analytical skills are utilized by the respective PBC and its subcommittees to address a longstanding issue surrounding a lack of transparency with the College budget.  I will work diligently to hear all perspectives and help to identify the best solution for all parties to ensure that such decisions serve the good of our students and College at all times.  I have no issues with being the unpopular voice at times when I want to make sure that people are clearly evaluating an issue and fully considering all the constituents that would be impacted by such budgetary decisions.  Therefore, I think that I am well qualified to serve on the PBC and/or its subcommittees.

Thomas Delgiudice (School of Arts and Sciences)

SPAAR and Budget Committee

Yes

I would say my qualifications are somewhat multifaceted. 
Motivation and Commitment: 
First as a graduate of the school, a faculty member since 1985, and distinguish for teaching excellence my commitment to the mission of the school and its students while understanding the need for evolution is firm and proven.

Budget and Planning 
I would like to preface what follows with this. My contributions to the college in the planning area in a very large part had to do with initiating, planning and overseeing our large capital investments from 2005 to 2013. At the time the campus was perhaps in the worst condition of any SUNY campus and during this period we successfully turned that around. The work I’m most proud has to do with my leadership in executing these numerous Capital projects that elevated the face of the campus. In that capacity I interfaced with SUCF, numerous architectural and engineering firms, contractors and the various constituencies of the College -faculty, students and staff. My motivation was to ensure that our students and staff had first rate facilities and could take pride in their workplace.

While proud of that work I have witnessed more mixed results in the College’s other kinds of planning coordination. In the Capital area planning requires homework, collaboration, decisions and execution. There is no room for procrastination or lack of follow through. I enjoyed that work and the results that followed. In the larger College planning context…silos, suspicions and sometimes just plain lack of interest in the process led to less than desirable results in my opinion. Nonetheless I authored the chapter on planning for Middle States 2010 and was co-chair for that standard for our 2020 Middle States Review. I am encouraged by the new administration’s experience in this area and see it as an area of growth for the College.

With respect to budget and planning I have served the college in numerous capacities.
I have served on budget and planning and the SPAAR committees both as an active member and a  co-chair of BPC. 
Accomplishments:
Served on executive committee on 2010-2015 Strategic Plan for College at Old Westbury
Served as Co-chair on the Colleges first Masters Facility Plan 2013-2023. 
Proposed and created the Capital Planning Office 2005 and served as Director of Capital Planning 2005 to 2013. In that capacity planned and coordinated  capital projects valued at over $170 million.
My responsibilities for these projects included  their initiation, advocacy with SUCF , planning and coordinating budgets, timelines and chairing program studies,  coordinating construction and partnering with campus constituencies affected by the project.
A few of notable projects include:
New Academic Building, 
University Police Building,
Renovation of Student Service Offices including Registrar, Financial Aid, Bursar, Residential Life, Health Services,
Campus Network System including backbone, fiber and building wiring,
Planning and Budgeting Campus HVAC systems and electrical switchgear
Library Project and coordinated  Phase One of construction Library.
Campus Center Envelop Project.
 
All these projects were my direct responsibility delegated by Dr Butts. I enjoyed doing the work and most importantly seeing the difference it has made for students, staff and faculty. While I feel immense gratitude for having that opportunity my first love was always teaching and working with students. In 2013 at the conclusion of the NAB project I requested to return to classroom full time. However, my experience and concern for the College meeting the demands of students going forward and maintains its historic mission remain a passion.

Basabi Mukherji (School of Arts and Sciences)

Budget Committee

Yes

I have been involved with budgeting and planning issues for at least two decades.  I was on the former BPC committee and was a co-author of the RABPC committee structure.  I served on the Operations Committee of the SUNY UFS and co-chaired it for two years.  I co-authored the budget planning committee document which was submitted to the President's Office.  

Jeanne Shimizu (School of Education)

SPAAR and Budget Committee

No

My experiences and qualifications with respect to planning and budgeting in higher education has been the result of my work with the Teacher Opportunity Corps (TOC; 2016 - 2021).  I was a member of the writing team and served as director and co-director during the implementation years.  TOC was funded by an NYSED MBK (My Brother's Keeper) 5-year grant whose goal was to increase the numbers of members of under-represented minorities in the NY teaching force.  I was responsible to create an annual budget of $324,934, oversee expenditures; make budget modifications, as needed; maintain communication with NYSED in Albany regarding the budget and program; and work with the Research Foundation (RF)to make sure that all expenditures by Old Westbury's TOC program met NYSED requirements.  

We received the maximum allowable funding for this grant, which the rfp stated was intended to support the education of 50 preservice teachers (interns).  If, by March our numbers of interns dropped below 47, we would have to return money ($6500 per intern lost) back to NYSED.  In order to avoid giving money back to NYSED and to plan for possible attrition, we chose to support more students.  Almost all of the TOC interns received some form of financial assistance.   With careful analysis of data from Financial Aid and the local office of the RF, we were able to fund an additional 15 interns in years 2 and 3* and return less than 8% of the $324,934 in these years.  [*In Year 1, we did not receive funds until Spring semester and could not run a full program.  In years 4 and 5, the COVID-19 pandemic hit.  We lost interns.]

I recognize that my work with TOC is not directly related to the work of the PBC.  However, they reflect skills and levels of understanding of working with State funding that are important to the work of the PBC.  

Roger Mayer (School of Business)

Budget Committee

No

I am nominating myself to the Planning and Budget Committee (PBC) and the budget subcommittee with this post. I am a CPA, licensed in New York and Pennsylvania, with decades of experience working with and teaching the budgeting process. Highlights of my experience include:

• As a director of internal audit for a government public hospital, I participated and monitored the budget process from the development phase to assessing monthly variances.
• Over the past 10 years, I served as a director and treasurer for a Co-op apartment in Manhattan. I am responsible for developing the annual budget and providing a monthly assessment of budget variances.
• I have provided international consulting related to budgeting. For example, along with two colleagues, I traveled to Ethiopia in 2020 on a consulting mission. We worked with the Ministry of Finance to develop a strategic roadmap to align the national budget with the accounting system that conforms with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS).
• Besides teaching budget as an integral part of our cost accounting class, I have participated in various research projects related to budgeting. 

If used properly, the budget is a primary internal control that an organization can use to align strategy and operations. If nominated to this committee, I will use my experience to help guide the College as we serve our students and pursue our Mission.

Julio Gonzalez (School of Education)

SPAAR and Budget Committee

No

Over the years I have had the opportunity to collaborate, consult, and direct various initiatives that directly and indirectly interfaced with both strategic planning and budgeting at several institutions of higher education.  At Long Island University I worked directly with Provost Paul Forestell and the Dean of the College, Chuck Hitchcock, on strategic planning and budgeting as it related to the initial accreditation of their programs in education, the curricular revamping of Southampton College, and later, on its transition to the main campus at C.W. Post.  At Stony Brook University I served in an advisory capacity to President Shirley Strum Kenny on strategic planning and budgeting regarding the various multicultural initiatives that the University was considering and implementing at the time. In more recent years at Old Westbury, I served as Director of Assessment for the School of Education under Dean Rubén González, Interim Dean of the same School under Provost Patrick O’Sullivan, and faculty member, and throughout this time, I have contributed to the strategic planning and budgeting processes as they have related to achieving initial and consecutive national accreditations, the development of the College’s and School of Education mission and vision, institutional research initiatives, and the development of the first graduate degree offerings in education at Old Westbury. In addition, I had the opportunity to work on the budgets of various graduate initiatives and new programs, intramural and extramural grants, and several academic program improvements plans as stipulated by the State University of New York and the New York State Education Department.

Renu Balyan (School of Arts and Sciences)

SPAAR

Yes

I am a current and new member of the SPAAR committee who joined only a few months back. Due to my area of expertise, I volunteered hoping I could help analyze the data gathered and gain some insights to identify any hidden patterns. However, due to my joining the committee only recently, I have not been involved in the intricacies of the process, procedures or had a chance to look at the kind of data that can be possibly analyzed. However, I did get a chance to read through the strategic plan and its implementation and the reports and I would like to make up to it and play an important role in the committee. 
As I read through the Goals, I realized that in addition to analyzing the data (if made available), I am involved in research activities that can help achieve several objectives within each of those Goals. For example, I have recently written NSF and IES research grants and would continue doing in the future too, that would help build STEM research capacity in the underrepresented and minority groups for undergraduate and graduate students. The grant would engage and motivate students in research activities. This grant would help a) foster student success by strengthening their experience in college (while participating and presenting in seminars, conferences and workshops); b) promote academic excellence by upgrading and expanding academic technology and facilities – because the students will be able to work on the latest technology (infrastructure with GPUs and high processing power machines have been requested as a part of the NSF grant) and curriculum to be updated as per the market demand; c) strengthen institutional effectiveness by generating revenue for the institute and advance the technological effectiveness; and finally build on student Diversity to foster respect, diversity, equity and Inclusion, because the NSF grant is specifically targeted towards MSIs and will promote groups that are underrepresented in STEM.
I would conclude by saying that I might be new to my job at SUNY-OW but I have nearly 2 decades of experience in academia, industry and research organization, as department head, lab in-charge, and mentor, and worked with diverse populations. I am familiar with and understand all the nitty-gritty of these systems and what it takes to achieve success. I am motivated, have the passion, zeal and am determined to work hard to fulfill the objectives discussed above which are part of the Goals in the strategic Plan, given a chance – that’s how we learn by working with and learning from the senior and more experienced faculty. 

Fetsum-Rahwa Haile (School of Arts and Sciences)

SPAAR

No

I am deeply invested helping to ensure that the College become mission-aligned in all of its domains. I have done a tremendous amount of work to ensure mission alignment in terms of equity in hiring processes (in doing the bulk of the writing of the PRODiG resolution, in the presence of considerable resistance, no less), justice in the treatment of students (joint letter on racial equity in conduct processes), request for Columbus day to be named Indigenous People's day, speaking about racial justice on campus multiple times (one during campus ML King Jr celebration, another during the Freedom Dreams talk series, which I organized), and as co-Chair of PARITY and director of the Disparities Institute (which has hosted countless external and internal talks about health equity over the past decade). I am deeply committed to helping OW reach its high potential in terms of mission-alignment and excellence in education and curation of a positive and transformative undergraduate experience. I have also collaborated with multiple community organizations within the region, and am cultivating relationships that would certainly help the College raise its profile, and live up to its potential to become a much needed beacon for economic advancement and social justice in Long Island.

Chante Hope (Library)

SPAAR and Budget Committee

No

At SUNY Maritime College from 2018-2019, I served as the Faculty Assessment Committee (FAC) chair. As chair, I was charged to update/oversee the college's assessment functionalities and assist the Vice Provost of Institutional Assessment with the college’s faculty assessment day (FAD). I also actively participated in Maritime College's Strategic plan by serving on two subcommittees, Champion Diversity and Inclusion and Achieve New Heights of Academic Excellence. Each of these subcommittees’ was to implement, resource, and propose new ideas on how their department could reach one of the college’s strategic goals. For example, the two concepts presented by the library department were to develop a maker space and improved accessibility accommodations for the students.