APPLIED LEARNING: NEXT STEPS

Executive Committee Process for Transition to Faculty Governance Oversight

SUNY APPROVED APPLIED LEARNING is required to meet 5 SUNY standardizing criteria and credit bearing courses to be designed and delivered by members of the Faculty. Across all units of the SUNY system, faculty seeking “SUNY AL tagging” for any course designed as Applied Learning in whole or part (which embeds AL activities at a minimum of 20% of the course/learning time) will do so via faculty governance structures of curricular review.



1.    AL Resolution Faculty Senate, Resolved 5/4/17.

Be it further resolved, that the Faculty Senate continue the Applied Learning Committee (ALCT) for the 2017-18 academic year, and appoint via the Faculty Senate Executive Committee as needed, faculty from Social Sciences, Humanities, Natural Sciences, Mathematics and English, to collaborate/consult with the Faculty Senate Executive Committee, Strategic Planning Taskforce and/or subcommittees, the Curriculum and Academic Planning (CAP) Committee, the Liberal Education Committee (LEC) and other appropriate campus groups and governance committees in this process. 



2.    SUNY approved AL tagging is in need of being aligned with faculty governance curricular over sight. Currently, tagging of SUNY criteria-based applied learning, occurs via the Executive Committee appointed faculty members to a college-wide Applied Learning Campus Team (ALCT). These college-wide teams remain as consultative committees for those interested in AL design and delivery across all SUNY campuses, but, they are not invested as Standing Committees of the Faculty. Tagging approval for faculty-directed AL curricular elements is currently without an operational home for review outside of academic departments.



Beyond departments, all curricular initiatives require faculty oversight via the Liberal Education  Committee (LEC) for college-wide and SUNY general education requirements, and the Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP) for majors, minors and five-year program review. The Teaching for Learning Resources Committee (TLRC) is assigned the work of providing support, training and guidance to faculty for design and delivery of  the curriculum. 



3.     Our Bylaws provide remedy for completing the work of this transition to Faculty governance jurisdiction in the Preamble to the Old Westbury Faculty Bylaws, the relevant section that is provided as follows:



Committees shall be empowered to form subcommittees and ad hoc task forces,

including additional people not on the full committee, to carry out the work of the

committee, except as noted under a specific committee’s procedures. Any such

changes shall be made in consultation with the Senate Chair (Faculty Bylaws pp.17-18, Article VII, sub-section/clause 12. 



4.     The Executive Committee is assigning to three Standing Committees of the Faculty, (LEC, CAP and TLRC) the task of forming a Special Joint Ad-Hoc Task Force to provide at minimum one recommendation/resolution outlining the structures and processes for the approval and tagging of  SUNY Approved Criteria Applied Learning courses/activities:



certify the alignment of courses with all five SUNY AL criteria and thereby to approve all syllabi meeting the 5 Criteria requirement AL courses submitted for tagging, either elective or required (select two elected faculty  members from LEC, with current jurisdiction for approval of  SUNY liberal education and colllege0wide graduation requirements)*

review along with the other curricular offerings, all AL courses offered as part of majors, minors and in five year reviews either elected or required (select two elected members from CAP currently responsible for review and approval of majors, minors and five year reviews)*

provide support, training and guidance to the Faculty for curricular initiatives (select two elected members from TLRC currently responsible for same with regard to current curricular initiatives across the Faculty )*



        Chairs of these three committees are assigned this task, via the Chair of the Faculty Senate, who shall also request  each chair to provide the names of two elected members from each of the respective committees, all six of whom shall become the working members of the Special Joint Task Force. 



        *In the event that chair(s) assesses that the work required interferes with the work of his/her committee, he/she shall request the appointment of one or two such faculty to his/her committee to be assigned either to the Special Joint Task Force or to his/her committee to support its work. 

        

The Special Task Force shall elect a Special Joint Task Force Coordinator (and report that decision to the Chair of the Faculty, who will co-ordinate the work of the Joint Task Force and serve as liason to  the Applied Learning Campus Team (ALCT).  A member of the Executive Committee shall serve as liason to the  Special Task Force as a member of the group.  The Special Joint Task Force may consult with the ALCT or its Co-chairs, at will. 



        A recommendation/resolution shall be readied for circulation to the Faculty for Faculty Senate discussion and vote no later than two weeks prior to the date of the last Faculty Senate meeting of the Spring 2018 semester. 























1