UNIVERSITY FACULTY SENATE EXECUTIVE

COMMITTEE

RESOLUTION

BE IT RESOLVED the Executive Committee of the University Faculty Senate recommends that
each faculty governance body pass the attached resolution on next steps for an assessment
framework.

RESOLUTION

ON NEXT STEPS FOR AN ASSESSMENT

FRAMEWORK

Whereas, the request of the Faculty Council of Community Colleges and the University Faculty
Senate that the Board of Trustees suspend the implementation of its June 17, 2003 resolution on
assessment in favor of a continuing dialogue on this issue has been honored; and
Whereas, Chancellor King has “invited faculty governance bodies [to] take the lead in
developing a draft of a revised proposal” for university-wide campus based assessment of the
“building blocks of general education;” and
Whereas, the Executive Committees of the Faculty Council of Community Colleges and the
University Faculty Senate believe that such a dialogue would be beneficial to the process of
searching for a joint agreement on a framework for university-wide campus based assessment
that would satisfy the concerns of both the faculty and the Board of Trustees; therefore
Be it resolved that the faculty of SUNY

proposal to initiate this dialogue:

supports the following four-part

1. The establishment of an assessment framework for determining the level of achievement
and/or the increment of growth in learning achieved by SUNY undergraduates in the building
blocks of general education. In addition to those measures already in place in campus plans, this
framework should include “externally referenced measures" of the campus’s choice -- either
nationally or SUNY-normed. For campuses choosing a value-added approach, this framework
should consist of a set of instruments administered at two points in time: close to the student’s
entry to the institution and at some later date when the student has completed this learning.
2. A survey instrument that will provide for an understanding of the indicators that reflect the
campus academic environment (e.g. National Survey of Student Engagement-NSSE).
3. An analysis of the relationship between academic assessment results and these environmental
influences. This analysis would be done at the campus level and included in campus reports.
4. An indication of how individual campus plans will be folded into the GEAR approval
process, including the specific criteria that GEAR will use in approving them.