STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK / COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, November 6 2020



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes



Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LIB), John Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Roger Mayer (AC), Llana Barber (AS), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemm (CE), Lina Gilic (EE, Senator-At-Large), Deepa Jani (EN), Laura Anker (FY), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Do Young Park (M/CIS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Sarah Smith (PH), Ryoko Yamamoto (SY, CAP), Catherine Bernard (VA), Jeanne Shimizu (ARPT), Danielle Lee (LEC), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Eric Hagan (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA), Erik Benau (PY)



Non-Voting Members of Senate Present: Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Usama Shaikh (VP/StudAff), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE)



Visitors: Jermaine Archer, Pat Lettini, Carol Quirke, Evan Kobolakis, Lisa Chin, Ana Martinez, Frank Pizzardi, Thomas DelGiudice, Linda Camarasana, Mona Rankin, Len Davis, Timothy Sams, Wayne Edwards, Ashlee Lien, Jody Cardinal, Mili Makhijani, Thomas Lilly, Art Angst, Lisa Lewin, Ozgur Akgun, Tejas Bouklas, Youngjoo Kim, Lenore Walsh, Jillian Crocker, Becky Evans, Erik Benau, Cris Notaro, Claudia Marin Andrade, Patty Harris, Robert Hoyte, Jacob Heller, Yogesh More, Martha Livingston, John Friedman, Erin Toolis, Solomon Chak, Anthony Barbera, Mike Kinane, Dinorah Martinez, Tricia McLaughlin, Nicole Sieben, Lana Thomas,  Manya Mascareno, Lisa Payton, Laura McCauley, Samara Smith, Malini Kumar, Shalei Simms, Renu Balyan, Barbara Hillery, Kasia Platt, Shebuti Rayana, Gary Levanti, Ed Bever, Geta Techanie, Kenneth Winkelman, Rachel Kalish, Mohamed Khalefa, Frank Sanacory, Kinning Poon, Sylvie Kande, Lorenz Neuwirth

Roster of Senators Absent: Xavier Marechaux (AE), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Hana Elgoarany (SGA)



I. Call to Order 12:30

II. A very special guest! 

The incoming president Dr. Timothy Sam’s joined the meeting to say hello and introduce

Himself.

Dr. Sam’s is thankful and excited to begin his work here at Old Westbury

III. Approval of Minutes for Oct 9, 2020

Minutes approved as amended 

 IV. Approval of Minutes for Oct 23, 2020 

Minutes approved as amended. 

V. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report 

Addressed budget issue and the revival of a budget committee. Progress is being made and many transparent conversations have taken place.

Guiding principles: for the academic mission of the college to be preserved while increasing revenue and decreasing non personnel costs.

Touched on possibilities for next semester.

SPAAR needs to get into the bylaws.

Virtual Commencement November 22nd.

After each chairs report there will be positive announcements from the faculty.

VI. Provost’s Report 

Middle states draft report is finally prepared, more than 100 campus community members that have contributed to the current report.

Town hall meeting to discuss the report on Monday, advance registration is required.

After corrections and suggestions have been made it will go back to the steering committee and submitted our Middle States chair and a meeting will take place on December 2nd.

Middle States gives our students the ability to utilize financial aid. We had a good review in 2011 and 2016. We are on track for a good review this time around as well.

The faculty showcase was a sort of joint effort to acknowledge and highlight some of the work that the faculty is getting accomplished in remote instruction.

We continue to work with the faculty senate executive committee to discuss related budget issues of the Division of Academic Affairs.

Grateful for the efforts to advance the co-curricular academic programming this semester.

SUNY Old Westbury National Honor Society and neuroscience, the new role psi epsilon chapter for its efforts to work in collaboration with the beta chapter at Rutgers University to have a virtual conference this spring semester, congratulations to Dr. Lorenz Neuwirth.

April 16th 2021, we will virtually host the student undergraduate research conference.



VII. UUP Report

Tuesday at noon there will be a virtual rally supporting the cause against the stock transfer tax.

Pre-retirement webinar will happen soon.

Benefits 101 webinar :November 18th 

UUP is not obligated to get a Covid 19 test but it is possible that in order to come on campus It might soon be mandatory to prove you are safe. The test is actually $200.00 although it is free to campus members.



VIII. SGA Report 

Departmental faculty co sponsorship line of $26,250.00. The application will be finished no later than December 5th

Faculty co-sponsorship line is for any initiatives, lectures, speakers, performances, the faculty or any department would like to put on for the whole student body.

IX. IT resolution response & HyFlex Rooms 

We are updating the communications between the most important departments here being facilities and IDS

We can send an immediate notification to everybody when something happens as far as service notifications go

HyFlex classrooms allow some students to remain remote and professors in the classroom and students to communicate in a seamless way.

average cost for a high level HyFlex classroom is anything between 175,00 to 300,000 per classroom.

We are looking into creating pilot rooms and we are looking for faculty input. Two pilot rooms are being built in the library right now.

Asking faculty to share their experiences with remote learning.

We are planning to do 10 of these classrooms, funded through the CARES act with the money having an expiration date. Deadline of December 9th for pilot rooms to be used by faculty in order to see how well these rooms will work for our faculty. 

A discussion was opened 

 X. Discussion of facility dependent courses in Spring 2021

A discussion about feelings towards courses that will be held on campus was held

XI. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements 



XII. Adjournment