Il.

BACKGROUND

INFORMATION

Through the response of key administrative and faculty representative
s (i.e., CFOs and

CGLs), this survey examines the perceptions of major campus constit
uencies regarding
campus effectiveness in budget preparation, resource allocation and linkage
of budgeting to

planning. The Operations Committee did not intend this survey to
examine performance

indicators for the actual effectiveness with which campuses allocate their
resources.

In the case of the campus budget process, why does perception
matter? It is known that

perceived quality and perceived satisfaction (involving a process or a
product, for example)
can be powerful performance indicators. Perceptions of quality help
drive consumer sales as

well as college selections and the location of one’s residence. Consider a well-e
stablished

measure of automobile quality - the metric developed by J.D. Power
and Associates™. Each

year this firm produces a ranking derived from a national survey
of consumers’ satisfa

ction
with their automobile’s initial quality, service and reliability. This
ranking relies on selfreporting by consumers and their perceptions of quality, rather than
on analysis of actual
service records or empirical data on initial defects or mechanical
reliability. Still, this

annual
ranking is recognized by the industry and has measurable impact
on marketing strategies and
consumer behavior. Since perception significantly influences the
decision making process of
individuals and organizations, it is a topic of robust study throughout
management and

decision science (as well as in the physical, behavioral
and social sciences).

An interesting outcome from the Survey - as it relates to perceived
satisfaction - concerns

the
issue of expectation. As detailed in Section VI. on statistical
analysis of survey responses, it
can be seen that faculty and administration - as represented
through the responses of campus
governance leaders and chief financial officers - have significantly
different expectations
when it comes to the role of faculty in the campus budget
ing process. Additionally, faculty
and

administration may have different views on what constitutes an
appropriate level of
resources to allocate to administrative functions. The degree
of satisfaction or dissatisfaction
with the campus budget process can be viewed as a function of
these differing expectations.

In his work on the theory of expectations, David Bell describes
disappointment as a natural
Teaction to an outcome that does not measure up to one’s expect
ations.’ The higher one’s
expectations
, the greater is the disappointment with a lower reward
or a dissat

isfactory
outcome. (Elation, in varying degrees, occurs when an outco
me exceeds one’s expectations.)
In the case of the campus budget process, faculty in SUNY
- as elsewhere - expect an active
and participatory role in the campus budget process.
Administration may have alternate
expectations regarding the level of activity and degree
of participation by faculty. Vastly
different expectations are seen to exist on about 40%
of the state-operated campuses.

ee

' ey David E., “Disappointment in Decision Making”,
Operations Research, Vol. 33, No. 1, January/February
1985, pp. 1-26