Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                           Friday, October 3, 2014

                            Full Faculty Meeting

Members of the Faculty Present: Kathleen Velsor (Chair, presiding), Minna
   Barrett (University Faculty Senator), Kathie Greenberg (Senator At-
   Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Caroline Sawyer (Senator At-
   Large), Alonzo McCollum (professional), Ana Martinez (Professional),
   Jason Kaloudis (Library), Jeffrey D’amico (Accounting), Jeanne Shimizu
   (Adoescence Education), Laura Chipley (American Studies), Amara Graf
   (English Dept.), Juan P. Galvis (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Fernando
   Guerrero (Modern Languages), Angel Lara (Modern Languages), Edislav
   Manetovic (PEL), Fred Millan (Psychology), Ashlee Lien (Psychology),
   Shijian Li (Public Health), Amanda Shigihara (Sociology), Robert Gero
   (Visual Arts), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Cary Lange (CAP), Ryoko
   Yamamoto (TLC), Jacob Heller (FRR),

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Calvin Butts (President),
   Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Wayne Edwards (VP Student Affairs), Barbara
   Hillery (SAS Dean), Anthony Barbera (SOB Dean).
Visitors Present: ), Blidi Stemn (SOE),  Amanda Frisken (American Studies),
   John Friedman (American Studies), Jermaine Archer (American Studies),
   Aubrey Bonnett (American Studies), Andrew Mattson (American Studies),
   Joseph Manfredi (American Studies), Rajendra Gharbaran (Biology), Shaadi
   Mehr (Biology), Shilpi Paul (Biology), Duncan Quarless ( Chem/Physics),
   Margaret Torrell (English Dept.), Nichole Sieben (English Dept.),
   Danielle Lee (English), Edward Bever (H&P), Jingyi Song (H&P), Myesha
   Price (Psychology), Laurette Morris (Psychology), Lillian Park
   (Psychology), Runi Mukherji (Psychology), Lisa Chin (Public Health), Jill
   Crocker (Sociology), Patricia McLaughlin (Visual Arts), Hyewon Yi (Visual
   Arts),  Rafat Sada (Enrollment), Sandy Kaufmann (Institutional Research
   and Assessment), Deborah Rhem-Jackson (Academic Affairs), Dinorah
   Martinez (recording).


     I. Call to Order: 12:39 pm


    II. Minutes from the last Full Faculty Senate Meeting

        Minutes were accepted unanimously after two corrections signaled by
        the senators.


   III. Senate Chair’s Report

   1. Task Force Committee chaired by Jacob Heller is working on the
      schedule change.
   2. ARBC is moving again after almost two years of inactivity.
   3. Professors having problems with the office phone can contact the help
      desk and the computer Service Department will give new batteries to
      them.
   4. The Rights and Responsibilities Committee is working on the revision
      of the Bylaws and has reviewed many areas. I have appointed Duncan
      Quarless and Werner Sbaschnik to work together to set up a
      subcommittee of the Rights and Responsibilities Committee to work on
      this revision.

IV.           President’s Report

      Things are going well at the beginning of the semester and that is in
      part a result of the engagement of faculty and students. I hope you
      continue doing so day by day during the academic year.
      We have the largest enrollment in the history of the school when
      combining the undergraduate and graduate programs, and we have 460
      first time to college students. Those numbers work well for our
      college budget and we will be funded completely according to the
      budget we submitted to SUNY.
      I want to say a word of appreciation to Laura Anker, Carol Quirke and
      Jacqueline Emery who put together a beautiful program for students and
      brought Julie Otsuka, the author of the book The Buddha in the Attic,
      to campus. She gave a wonderful reading from her book and also
      presented an excellent lecture.
      I have seen some post about the It’s on Us Campaign. We can’t tolerate
      any abuse to anyone on the campus. We support the campaign against
      violence and rape.
      We have new developments in terms of Academic Affairs. The Master of
      Art and Liberal Studies has been approved and registered by SUNY.
      These classes are expected to be offered in the fall of 2015. It is a
      beautiful addition to our offering. It will increase our enrollment
      and bring another level of students to our campus. Discussions are
      under way concerning the potential development of continuing and
      professional studies, which could offer certificate programs and more.
      You are generally talking about old students when you talk about
      continuing professional studies, and that is part of what our mission
      is at Old Westbury. Our mission is to reach out to men and women young
      and older, black, white, Latino, and others.
      Wayne Edwards and Patrick O’Sullivan are working on establishing this
      semester an Academic Activities Program to be conducted at the
      Residence Halls. Those activities will include faculty and staff
      meeting with students at Residence Halls to answer questions and to
      give advice on how to study, write and to move forward.
      We are continuing with the effort to work with other SUNY campuses in
      Long Island for a more Seamless Transfer and how to engage Suffolk
      Community College in the seamless process.
      The most important thing is to keep your teaching standards high.
      Teach at the highest level and push the students to rise to their
      best. Advise them and help them before they waste a lot of money.



V.           Provost’s Report

        The new faculty were introduced to the Faculty Senate. The Provost
        wished them the best and asked them to report to him who their
        mentor is at the end of October.
        We have the Master of Art in Liberal Studies finally registered and
        will be working in the implementation process to start in September
        2015.
        We had discussions about a program to implement at The Residence
        Halls. We ask faculty to volunteer to spend an hour talking to
        students at the Residence Halls maybe once a month. We have 150
        faculty members and certainly will be able to have a number of
        faculty in different Residence Halls talking about studying,
        discipline, academics, financial literacy and other topics. We are
        working on the topics list and will be reaching out to you. The
        effort is to send a signal to students that we really do care and
        will invest time in them. Probably we will need to build an
        audience because it is not easy to get students to come to such
        events unless they are strongly motivated.
        We are looking at establishing a School of Continuing and
        Professional Studies. The motivation is to serve the community but
        also to generate another revenue stream for the college. Ed Bever
        is going to direct the program. He and I are working with other
        people on collecting ideas to implement it.
        We are working with Community Colleges to ensure that the transfer
        process is as smooth as possible and to have a more predictable and
        stable enrollment.
        We met all our targets in enrollment for this year and this is very
        important.
        We will be putting together an Enrollment Task Force Committee. The
        purpose is to look at every aspect of enrollment, especially those
        factors that lead to complications for students. We need to have
        better software to make predictions and also to have data to do the
        analysis. Enrollment ensures our financial stability going forward.
        We need to look at our target for September 2015. All of you are
        invited to participate in providing input into this effort so we
        can make the recommendation to Dr. Butts.

VI.          Committee Reports (FRRC, Jacob Heller)


        Bylaws stipulate that FRRC needs to get a presentation on the Bylaws
        every       fall semester and that is what I am doing.
        Faculty Bylaws are different than other bylaws. They describe the
        structure for faculty self-governance.
        There are a lot of definitions within the bylaws. You should all
        have a copy of the bylaws because they tell us things about what
        faculty controls.
        The administration consult with the faculty and the faculty
        recommend things to the administration. That is the nature of our
        relationship.
        The higher authority within the faculty is sometimes confusing. The
      faculty
        is at the top in charge; constituted together we can vote to do
        things as a group that no one individual can overrule. Between times
        when the faculty meets as a whole we have the Senate convening every
        two weeks. Between meetings of the Senate, the Executive Committee
        is responsible for speaking for the Faculty and in special
        circumstances the Faculty Senate Chair is responsible for speaking
        for the Faculty in between meetings of The Executive Committee. The
        Faculty Senate Chair works for the Faculty and is not in charge of
        the Faculty. This is also the way it is supposed to work in
        departments as well. Department Chairs work for the department and
        are not in charge of their Faculty.
        Faculty Senate is the group that meets to deliberate and vote on
        things. It includes Academic Departments, representatives from ad-
        hoc committees, professional staff, student representatives, and ex-
        officio members. Not all of them vote according to the Bylaws.
        The work of the Faculty is done through various committees as
        described in the Bylaws.
        The relation between the Faculty and the Administration is
        articulated in a particular part of the Bylaws called the
        Consultation Clause. It is currently under review as it has been for
        8 years. In revising the Bylaws the Faculty Rights and
        Responsibilities Committee talked about trying to get this done this
        year and established a deadline for it.
        A lot of what happens in the Bylaws is about self-governance. The
        Bylaws were developed by us although some parts do require the
        President’s approval.
        The Bylaws are a living document and we can and must make revisions
        to it. It stipulates that we must revise it on a regular basis about
        every 5 years and we are behind on that.
        Nobody can change The Bylaws without the vote of the Faculty. There
        was a vote during the summer and we amended two parts of the Bylaws.
        We still need to conform the rest of the Bylaws.
        As Faculty what we must do and are forbidden to do is in the Bylaws.
        If you can’t find some area of concern in the Bylaws, then you
        should go to the UUP Contract; both documents are available on line
        at the Faculty Senate Website. Finally you can consult SUNY Board of
        Trustees Policies which includes information about Academic Freedom
        also Faculty have complete control of the curriculum.
        Dr. Velsor mentioned appointing Duncan Quarless, Werner Sbaschnik,
        Lingxiang Li, and Minna Barrett to the Bylaws Revision Committee.
        Please, send your name to Dr. Velsor or to me if you would like to
        volunteer to help on this committee.

VII.    Scheduling Change Task Force (Jacob Heller)


        Duncan Quarless and Patrick O’Sullivan met during the summer and
        created    the Joint Task Force Committee with six people appointed
        to serve: Amy Hsu, Frank Ilozue, Cary Lange, Duncan Quarless, Ron
        Welton and me. We are now collecting data and will have on Tuesday
        and Wednesday during the next week in the Recital Hall two town hall
        meetings where everyone gets to speak and express their ideas. We
        will use that as input and as a basis for a construction of an
        online survey that we are going to send to all students and faculty.
         We are researching the legal issues involved in shortening the
        classes and collecting data from all the constituencies involved.


VII.      Old /New Business

      • Motion on ARPT appointments
        The motion to appoint a member to serve during the Academic Year
        2014-15 on the ARPT Committee was read at the meeting. Motion to
        vote on the motion was seconded and the motion was accepted with 43
        in favor, 2 against and 1 abstention.

      • Election votes.


        Fernando Guerrero was nominated as Vice-Chair and Robert Gero as
        Secretary/Treasurer. Since it is only one nomination for each
        position, the chair passed her acceptance vote in each case and
        made them officially nominated to the position.


VIII.      Motion to Adjourn: 2:55 pm