Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
and System Provost
The State University of New York (SUNY) invites applications for the position of Senior
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and System Provost. SUNY’s mission is to make
higher education accessible to all individuals independent of financial means and background;
that it should help students find their purpose; and discover how to contribute positively to a
free and civil society with a high-quality, low-cost education. The Chancellor is looking for
an innovator/game-changing Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and System
Provost who will, during this transformative moment in higher education, work
collaboratively with the campus stakeholders to modernize, build, and strengthen academic
programs across the University to provide greater opportunities for students.
The Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and System Provost will report directly to
the Chancellor and will be a key member of the Chancellor’s senior staff. The SUNY System
Administration office is located in Albany, New York.
About the SUNY System: The State University of New York is the largest comprehensive
system of higher education in the United States comprising four university centers, four
academic health centers, five hospitals, four medical schools, two dental schools, a law
school, the state’s only college of optometry, 13 comprehensive colleges, seven technology
colleges, 30 community colleges, statutory colleges, like at the Colleges of Agriculture & Life
Sciences, Human Ecology, Industrial & Labor Relations, and Veterinary Medicine at Cornell
University and SUNY’s College of Environmental Science and Forestry, and manages one
U.S. Department of Energy National Laboratory.
More than 95 percent of all New Yorkers live within 30 miles of any one of SUNY’s 64
colleges and universities. In total, SUNY serves about 1.3 million students in credit-bearing
courses and programs, continuing education, and community outreach programs. SUNY
oversees nearly a quarter of academic research in New York. Research expenditures systemwide were more than $1.1 billion in fiscal year 2021, including significant contributions from
students and faculty. There are more than three million SUNY alumni worldwide, and one in
three New Yorkers with a college degree is a SUNY alum. For more information about
SUNY, visit: www.suny.edu.
The Position: SUNY seeks an innovative, collaborative, and forward-thinking leader to be its
next Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and System Provost. The successful
candidate will be the Chief Academic Officer, working alongside the Chancellor, and will be
responsible for driving academic access, success, and excellence across the SUNY System.
The successful candidate will join a team of world-class academics dedicated to realizing the
goal of making education affordable and individually transformational. This is an exceptional
opportunity for an experienced and dynamic individual to help lead a large, diverse system of

higher education committed to preparing students to address the challenges of the nation and
a global society in the twenty-first century.
The Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and System Provost currently has executive
responsibility for the staffing, operation, and management of the System’s academic affairs
office. The fundamental role of the Provost is to foster academic access and excellence across
the System.
The Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and System Provost will be responsible for:
• Ensuring pathways for student completion and success (the Chancellor demands that
the SUNY system be student-centric);
• Transforming academic programs and policies to meet growing research and
workforce demand;
• Fostering a culture of cooperation and continuous improvement across SUNY and
within System Administration;
• Supporting the University’s deep commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion;
• Leading strategic enrollment across SUNY campuses to increase enrollment
throughout the system, especially leveraging the various types of campuses into
multiple pathways and transfer opportunities for students; and
• Leading the identification and implementation of best practices at scale.
Requirements:
Qualified candidates will:
•
•
•
•

Possess an earned doctorate or appropriate terminal degree from an accredited
institution;
Have higher education administrative experience with evidenced responsibilities in a
senior academic position and having been a member of a senior leadership team;
Demonstrate experience supervising and managing personnel and budgets; and
Provide evidence of scholarly achievement and knowledge of current trends and
practices in higher education.

Professional and Personal Qualifications:
In addition, qualified candidates must possess the following experience and abilities:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Successful experience as a forward-thinking and results-oriented academic
administrator in a complex organization with a proven ability to execute large and
ambitious plans;
A track record of dedication to diversity and the ability to promote, support, and
achieve the various tenets of SUNY’s commitment to diversity, equity, and
inclusion;
An astute understanding of the relationships between academic policies, budgeting,
and operations;
A strategic facilitator, able to think creatively across boundaries and committed to
harnessing and facilitating the potential for collaboration throughout institutions and
disciplines;
Demonstrated commitment to students and student success;
Demonstrated commitment to shared governance in planning and managing change
and the ability to reduce conflict and facilitate a shared commitment to excellence;
Knowledge of emerging national and global educational, public policy, and cultural
trends, and ability to connect with corporate, educational, governmental, and private
sector leaders;

•
•
•

Excellent interpersonal skills, possessing the ability to build positive relationships,
and bringing diverse constituencies together to engage collaboratively and
collegially;
Outstanding listening and communication skills with a demonstrated ability to inspire
and engage others to support the vision of the System; and
Integrity and a strong commitment to the vision of SUNY.

In addition to a strong record of scholarly achievements, the successful candidate will be a
dynamic and collaborative leader who, in working with the Chancellor, serves as the primary
voice and advocate for SUNY’s academic enterprise within the state, national, and
international higher-education community.
A search committee reflecting the larger SUNY community representing college and
university presidents, campus and system administrators, and trustees will review
applications, screen candidates, and make recommendations to the Chancellor and the Board
of Trustees.
Applications: Interested candidates should submit only a cover letter and resume to RPA Inc.
at SUNYProvost@rpainc.org. For a confidential discussion about this opportunity or to make
a nomination, please email President Dana John Cohick, or Vice President and Senior
Consultant Amanda O’Donnell at the email address listed above. The first review of
candidates will begin on November 16, 2021, and first-round interviews will commence
thereafter.

State University of New York System Administration is an affirmative action, equal opportunity
employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, creed,
age, disability, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, familial status, pregnancy, predisposing
genetic characteristics, military status, domestic violence victim status, criminal conviction, or
retaliation.
Pursuant to Executive Order 161, no State entity, as defined by the Executive Order, is permitted
to ask, or mandate, in any form, that an applicant for employment provide his or her current
compensation, or any prior compensation history, until such time as the applicant is extended a
conditional offer of employment with compensation. If such information has been requested from
you before such time, please contact the Governor’s Office of Employee Relations at (518) 4733130 or via email at info@goer.ny.gov.

www.rpainc.org