State University of New York (SUNY)

                 2015/16 Executive Budget Summary – State‐operated and
                 Statutory Colleges


I. Operating Summary:


 The 2015/16 Executive Budget appropriates $4.2B to the Core Operating
 Budgets of the 29 State‐operated campuses, five statutory colleges, 37
 University‐Wide programs, and System Administration.

    • Performance Improvement Plans
         o An additional $18.0M in direct state‐support was provided and
           will be made available to campuses upon completion and approval
           by the SUNY Board of Trustees of “Performance Improvement
           Plans”.
         o 10 percent of the direct state‐support for each campus shall be
           set aside, to be provided upon approval of the same “Performance
           Improvement Plans” referenced above. These plans and the
           underlying metrics are to lay the groundwork for future
           Performance Based Funding initiatives.  Potential areas of
           measure for the plans shall include, but are not limited to:


               ▪ Improving access, completion, academic and
                 post‐graduation success, research, and community
                 engagement;
               ▪ Experiential learning as a requirement for graduation;
               ▪ Establishment of a Master Researcher program in
                 partnership with the Research Foundation;
               ▪ Providing financial incentives for presidents who provide
                 proven leadership resulting in commercialization of
                 research through START‐UP NY.


    • Collective Bargaining


         o No additional direct State tax support was provided for
           collective bargaining costs. The $7.6M increase provided in the
           2014/15 Enacted Budget for salary costs was eliminated.
         o A year‐to‐year increase of $155.0M in tuition spending authority
           was also provided, in recognition of Year Five of the NY‐ SUNY
           2020 Rational Tuition Plan and other associated tuition
           increases.







      University‐wide Programs


         o Funding was reduced by a total of $2.9M, reflecting the removal
           of legislative funding for the following programs: Educational
           Opportunity Program (EOP); Advanced Technology Training and
           Information Networking (ATTAIN); Marine Animal Lab at Stony
           Brook; Cornell Veterinary College. Additionally $141.4K was
           repurposed for the Charter School Institute.


         o Additionally $78.7K has also been removed, which represents the
           University‐Wide Program’s share of the of the $7.6M provided in
           the 2014/15 Enacted Budget for salary increases that was
           eliminated from the 2015/16 Executive Budget



      Maintenance of Effort (MOE) remains in effect for 2015/16

         o The “NY SUNY 2020” bill included as part of it the “Maintenance
           of Effort” provision wherein the state appropriates and make
           available general fund operating support for SUNY, including
           fringe benefits, in an amount not less than the amount
           appropriated and made available in the prior state fiscal year
           {provided that the governor does not declare a fiscal
           emergency…}



   II. Capital Summary:


   The Executive Budget recommends the re‐appropriation of $4.4B and new
   capital appropriations for 2015/16 as follows:



      State‐Operated/Statutory Colleges – Educational Facilities:





         o $200.0M in critical maintenance funding for 2015/16.
               ▪ The Five‐Year Capital & Financing Plan provides recurring
                 funding of $200.0M in each of the subsequent four State
                 Fiscal Years, for a total of $1.0B over five‐years.
               ▪ The appropriations for 2016/17 through 2019/20 are not
                 included in the Executive Budget and would be subject to
                 the approval of the Legislature each year.
               ▪ Use of the new appropriation is restricted to critical
                 maintenance projects in existing facilities.
         o $19.0M for additional critical maintenance projects at Stony
           Brook University.
         o $50.0M to provide full funding to construct a new school of
           pharmacy at the University at Binghamton.
         o $55.0 million is provided to support a fifth round of SUNY 2020
           Challenge Grants through the Urban Development Corporation.
         o $19.0 million is provided through the Urban Development
           Corporation for the College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell
           University.
         o $15.0M initially appropriated in 2014/15 and re‐appropriated  in
           2015/16 within the Division of Homeland Security  and  Emergency
           Services for  a  College  of  Emergency  Preparedness,  Homeland
           Security and Cyber Security is designated to be  established  at
           the University at Albany.



      State‐Operated Residence Halls:

         o Provides $50.0M in pay as you go appropriation in 2015/16 and
           for the subsequent four fiscal years, for a total of $250M.


 III. Other areas of interest included in 2015/16 Executive Budget:


    • Includes language that would move towards streamlining of new
      education programs to meet workforce needs
         o Shortens the approval time for new programs that do not require
           a Master Plan Amendment.
    • Creation of the “Get On Your Feet” Loan Forgiveness Plan, which would
      allow students who meet certain criteria to have the first two years
      of their federal student loans paid by the State. Students must:
         o Graduate with an undergraduate degree from a NYS college after
           graduating from a NYS high school;
         o Participate in the federal Pay As You Earn program;
         o Earn less than $50,000 in annual income.
    • Establishment of the NYS DREAM Act.
         o Would allow students without lawful immigration status (that
           meet certain criteria) to be eligible for the TAP program and
           other scholarship programs.
    • Implementation of Uniform Sexual Violence Prevention and Response
      Policies for all institutions of higher education in NYS (based on
      current SUNY policy).
    • Requiring Experiential Learning or Applied Learning activities for
      graduation from a SUNY or CUNY institution.
    • Increasing the minimum wage to $10.50 ($11.50 in NYC).