RPT Department Evaluation Scheduling & Procedures Worksheet**

Work backward from ARPT deposit date to schedule Department Review Meeting. As long as review period requirements are met, departments
may complete file review in advance of required timeline to fit within existing semester meeting schedules.

Procedural Requirement

See ARPT Manual (esp. p19-20) for details.
Review supplemental resources regarding Interfolio.

Time Required

Date/
Completed by

*Candidate submits committee members to ARPT via link provided. Interfolio case
will be launched in December/July; file preparation begins outside of system.
Candidate prepares file (with EC/chair support); Evaluation Committee (EC) Chair
requests internal and external letters as appropriate.
*Candidate uploads materials to Interfolio, submits to Evaluation Committee (EC)
for review.
*EC chair uploads peer/internal letters.
Evaluation Committee reviews file, prepares report/recommendation.
Typically includes meeting/s and vote; EC should elicit additional relevant data etc.
from candidate prior to producing final report.
Evaluation Committee shares and discusses finalized Report with Candidate, adds
to file before sending forward to department.
*Interfolio forms required of EC Chair
Time between completion of EC report and sharing file with Department varies by
department procedure.
Department Reviews File
*Voting Faculty Complete File Sign-off (Form 1 of 2) to indicate file review prior to
department review meeting.

One week (7 days)
prior to Department
Review Meeting (Vote)

Candidate may respond to EC Report during this period. *Interfolio form required.
Department Review Meeting with Vote (or consensus)
EC Chair confirms all voting faculty completed sign off form in advance.
Build in time to finalize Transmittal Letter (Department Evaluation and Procedures
Statement). May be hours or weeks depending on department procedure.
*Upload finalized Department Evaluation and Procedures Statement to Interfolio
when complete.
Candidate reviews finalized Department Evaluation (may respond);
*Voting Faculty review and complete Sign Off (2 of 2) on final department
evaluation (do not sign off before reviewing final version);
Minority Reports may be added per Manual guidelines.

5 working days (M-F)
Review period may be
waived by candidate.

*Interfolio Forms required of EC Chair and Candidate
ARPT Deposit

ARPT Presentation

2 weeks prior to
presentation for Spring
files; 1 week for Fall
files.

See notification.

See notification.

Procedural requirements listed in bold. Asterisk (*) indicates Interfolio Requirements.
**This worksheet is designed to assist new Evaluation Committee Chairs (especially) in developing a timeline for department review. Please use it
(or don’t) as you see fit. The ARPT Manual remains the definitive guide to RPT procedures and requirements.