GENERAL FACULTY MEETING
SEPTEMBER 13, 2002
12:40 — 2:40 p.m.
Natural Science Building Room S100
Chair Dr. Rita Colon-Urban welcomed everyone to the meeting and thanked Candelario Franco and the
UUP for the refreshments, which started the meeting off in a festive mood.

She promised to continue the

lead of former chair Naomi Rosenthal in starting and ending the meetings on time.

Chair’s Report
Since the Faculty Senate has not yet met, we are operating with last year’s Executive Committee: Rita
Colén-Urban as Vice-Chair, Karlyn Wood, parliamentarian, and member Wagih Shenouda. Madeline
Crocitto volunteered to take the minutes of this meeting. Maureen Dolan is reelected to the University
Faculty Senate and is attending a Planning and Budget Committee meeting.
The Committee met during the summer concerning the budget shortfall. Highlights, in addition to the
polo match in June, include the awarding of a Faculty Development Grant of $10.000 for clinical research
in collaboration with Wagner College. Dr. Colon-Urban asked that the grants be announced and open to
the faculty. Faculty can apply for grants ranging from $1,000 - $5,000 by the deadline of November 15.
There will now be a regular opportunity for Old Westbury faculty to apply in the spring for fall faculty
development awards.
Last week, the Executive Committee met with Dr. Butts concerning the budget shortfall and faculty
governance. We emphasized the need for developing a better working relationship by keeping the faculty
informed and allowing for participation in major decisions. We will present a list of members and
possible new candidates for the Planning and Budget Committee. Some continuing members include Rita
Buttermilch, Robert Hoyte, and Tom DelGuidice. Middle States is another important committee. We
have to formulate a response to them by April 2003. Dr.Colén-Urban asked for cooperation and
participation in committee work.
We need student participation in standing and college-wide committees.
Government which is in the process of sending up representatives.

The Chair wrote to Student

President’s Report
The President thanked Dr. Colon-Urban for bringing him before the faculty and thanked everyone for
their service to the College. He welcomed the faculty to class and the new academic year. We will take
purposeful steps to affect the budget shortfall so that no administrative and faculty layoffs occur and willl
work together to insure our progress will not be arrested. The budget shows a $1.7 million shortfall. Our
goal is to reduce costs and maintain the integrity of our degrees and academic programs, while having
revenue equal to expenses. We will work to insure no damage to majors, which involves the Budget and
Planning committee at full participation levels, which will include members suggested to us.
What have we done to met projected negative shortfall:
1)
2)
3)

Obtained a $3.3 million supplement to reduce our $5 million shortfall to $1.7 million.
Insured that all mandated pay raises will be met
Will try to fill the gap with overflow revenue through increased enrollment. The increase in
dollars will all be used to address the gap.

We are cutting costs by reducing the number of adjunct sections, reviewing course releases, reviewing all
faculty and temporary faculty positions, reviewing needs of each department, limiting faculty hiring to
positions in the Master’s program, Library, and Criminology.
We are also trying to cut expenses in service areas. For example, M. Kinane has arranged for full press,
radio, newspaper ads that produced an increase in the number of students attending. He spent $700,000
that year and will only receive $325,000 this year. We can’t have an application surge without getting the
word out.
We are facing severe competition, particularly from our neighbor, Farmingdale. Mary Marquez-Bell is
facing severe cuts limiting her ability to get to high school students and those who are not from our
region. It is important that we reach out.
Facilities here can be categorized as moderately dingy, which is an official state designation. Below this
is unkempt neglect. We have suspended all administrative hiring for other than those positions deemed
critical for the next three months. We will work with the BPC and memo of understanding. The
President emphasized that this is not a crisis but a gap and he expressed his gratitude to the faculty, Len
Davis who is sharing information, and acting AVP Patrick O’ Sullivan who is working very hard to help

us.

During the question period Hedva Lewittes asked about whether the process to limit replacements to the
Master’s, Library, and Criminology would include going through the CAP committee. CAP has always
acted on such issues in a timely fashion. The President had no objection to that but was acting on what
was recommended by Academic Affairs. Patrick O’Sullivan commented that the issue is having the funds
to pay people who are hired. This is highly significant in Teacher Education and School of Business to
keep them at a level so that undergraduate programs can be maintained and basic library services
provided. Hedva noted she was asking about the process, not the content of such decisions. Patrick
responded that in normal times these decisions would always go through CAP, but that we are now in an
emergency situation.
Judy Walsh inquired whether the budget gap would be $5 million for next year. The President responded
it would be if there are no other supplements or funds. The President of Student Government asked
whether the Poetry Center, Language Lab, and Math Lab would be closing. The President assure him
they will not. We tried to convince the State that operating at $19 million is at a barebones level so they
gave us an additional $3.3. Rita Colon-Urban received an assurance from the President that discretionary
funds for faculty are available.
The President further reported that we met 117% of our first-time-to-college goals with 294 freshmen
when our goal was 251. We met 96% of our transfer goals of 620 with 596 students. Our continuing
students goal was met at 2152 or 94% of our 2291 goal. We admitted 54% of applications compared to
50% last year. Our image is changing, but the budget gap limits our outreach to increase enrollment as
well as focus on retention services. We have to find resources to work on these issues. Patrick
O’Sullivan, Mary Marquez Bell, and Len Davis will be meeting with SUNY official on October 16" and
17" to discuss ways we can work more closely with SUNY to avoid facing these gaps.
Office of Development
R. Brown reported efforts to obtain corporate sponsorship. They have met with the Chief Executive
Officer of Vytra Health Systems to explore how to help them market to the College and other markets
they would like to get into. We hope this first corporate sponsorship will lead to others.

Facilities

The President reported the Construction Fund will turn the Student Union over to us at the end of October
with an extensive punch list. Realistically, it will not be usable until the spring, which will save us money
on energy and personnel. It looks good and is a welcome addition to Old Westbury. According to the
Dormitory Authority, four out of five residence halls should be ready by January with the fifth later in the
spring term. The room are large and there are wonderful group areas. The award to the firm for the
design of the new Academic Crescent and extension to the Natural Science building will come from the
Construction Fund once it has been selected.
From July 2001 until August 2002, $34,000 has been spent for accommodation for disabled students.
This includes equipment for visually impaired students and adapting computers to make them ADA
compliant. Rooms A 136 and A 130 will be office space for students with disabilities with closed caption
TV and cart. There will be funds for conference attendance and staff development.
In response to a question about a volunteer, Craig Wright noted that the State requires any volunteer to
report to the Human Resource Department with identification. There is no objection to a volunteer as
long as the person doesn’t displace someone who is classified. He asked everyone to follow these
procedures.
Budget
The budget gap precluded the President’s Office acting to sponsor campus events. We no long have
money to sponsor a reception for the art gallery and students events. Most notable is the cancellation of
December graduation, which will save us $20,000.

We will have the President’s convocation, because it

will strengthen our students and help with retention. Historically, we went from one graduation to two
because it rained one year and now revert back to one to save money.

Sachi Dastidar asked how the budget situation would affect parking and other expenses for the Student
Union. Anthony Barbera asked about the new buildings and parking. The only designated parking near
the new dorms is for disabled students. The main parking for the new dorms is in Campus Center. The
President of Student Government said they are encouraging students to park in the Clark Center.
President Butts said he will look into it.
Mina Barrett asked about significant cuts in academic supports and asked about campus-wide committees.
The President responded the BPC would be involved and evaluate areas if cuts are necessary.
Dr. Hoyte will lead a search committee
Patrick O’Sullivan expressed gratitude
about protecting programs and getting
Academic Affairs and Ron Welton and

for a new Vice-President of Academic Affairs. Acting AVP
for the opportunity to serve. He met with chairs two or three times
information about programs. He thanked the staff in the Office of
Reuben Gonzalez for their help.

He noted the budget impact on Academic Affairs is that 25 adjunct sections were removed which was
done with consultation. In the spring, 30-35 sections were eliminated, amounting to a savings of
$144,000. He won’t sections cut if injurious to a particular major. There is a very negative impact if
students feel they can’t finish their degrees. The spring schedule is not complete, but we believe that we
will hit our targets for majors. In the Fall 2001, we ran 497 sections of which 33% or 166 were staffed by
adjuncts. In Fall 2002, we ran 474 sections with 141 or 30% with adjuncts. In Spring 2002 were had 481
selections with approximately 146-150 or 30% adjuncts. The Middle States report is due April 1, 2003
and will be sent to Rita Colon-Urban for approval next week.

Discretionary money (DSI) is available. The Office of Academic Affairs consulted with Bob Hoyte and
organized a committee to review applications. The committee members are: Bob Hoyte (Chair), Laura
Anker, John Biondo, Joseph Conforti, Jesse Fernandez, Christine Griffin, Kathy Miranda who have

agreed to serve. The deadline for submission of files is September 27" at 4:00 p.m. Faculty will receive
a memo about the construction of files. By October 18" the committee will make its recommendations to
Academic Affairs. The Acting AVP stated that he intended to work closely with all committees.
Acting Vice-President O’Sullivan emphasized the need to grow enrollment in the face of competition
from Farmingdale. Their Bachelor of Science in Management and Technology replicates our business
degree. Our School of Business with enrollments from 650 — 695 and Computer Science program with
333 students need to be protected, as there is no price difference between Old Westbury and Farmingdale.
He has request information about a dozen of Farmingdale’s programs so that we may evaluate them.
There followed a general discussion about potential non-reappointments for full-time temporary lines and
the holding of retirement lines. Len Davis and the President informed us that the rules are changing and
we should hold off discussion until we know the rules to avoid confusion.
The Student Government Representative commented on the contribution of adjuncts, especially those
who provide internship and job opportunities and asked the AVP to keep the Poetry Center and Language
House open.
Ron Welton asked the faculty to inform students attending classes although their registration was purged
that they need to register by next Friday. He asked faculty to compare attendance with new rosters.
Dr. O’Sullivan introduced new faculty: Glenn Dodd, Visiting Professor - Computer Science, Irene Hilton
- TEP and Greg Kellar — School of Business .
UUP Report —Candelario Franco
Candelario is a member of the committee of people who lobby on behalf of SUNY and education. They
sent 670 people to Capital Hill to lobby. They met with Senators Marcellino and LaValle and asked for
assistance, since overall SUNY funding is up 5.9% but two schools, Alfred and Old Westbury were cut
6.1% in addition to the 5.9% they were denied. President Butts asked the UUP to help with the Budget
and thanked UUP for their support. A local advocacy group workshop is available for volunteers to do
home district lobbying. It is effective to lobby from where you vote and representatives have more time
to meet with you. Barbara Hillery is a member of the negotiating team, which will visit our campus.
Technology Report
Tom DelGuidice was unable to attend the meeting and will distribute his report in writing.
Education report was substituted in its place.

The General

General Education — Hedva Lewittes

The committee reviewed the correspondence between our old program and new courses with new
learning activities developed by departments, subject to SUNY’s approval. Seventeen of our courses
were accepted. SUNY tried to facilitate the process and if a course was not accepted asked for more
information. We need to offer 2000 level courses accept by SUNY so that more freshmen can take them.
She asked the faculty to consider working on a multi-year plan for offerings to advise students so they

will know what will be available.
at 8:00 p.m.

Hedva also noted there were few General Education courses available

A transfer student discovered a SUNY policy that any student registered in a SUNY school before 2000
was not subject to new General Education requirements. SUNY acknowledged this was “...not robustly
communicated.” This creates a new category of students so we will try to come up with a consistent
policy and communicate to the faculty as soon as possible.
Faculty should develop department assessment.
department has an assessment plan.

In April, Middle States will look at whether every

The Provost “‘was pleased to accept” the committee’s first year report. The assessment for GenEd
submitted in July specified Basic Competencies, Foreign Language, Math and Natural Science and the
two knowledge areas of Information Management and Critical Thinking. According to SUNY, we are
within the norm in terms of our plan and process. This is an ever-increasing, unfunded mandate, which
should be considered as part.of contract negotiations.
Rita Buttermilch asked about the effect of the new GenEd on our transfer student shortfall. We could not
determine whether the transfer student shortfall was due to general education, since most of our transfer
students enter with A.A. or A.S. degrees. Our two semesters of English is viewed as reasonable. Martha
Livingston inquired about a workshop to assist the faculty in advising in the new GenEd. Hedva noted in
previous workshops were not well attended and that specifying domain representatives might be a more
effective way to answer questions.
ARPT

- Minna Barret

The ARPT Committee does not have a list of actions and will send a letter asking how decisions were
made.
First-year Experience — Nancy Sacks
Nancy Sacks introduced Cynthia Anderson the Assistant in the first-year program and commented that
they along with Pat Cheshire are an excellent team. Their goal is to help motivate and support students as
they make their transition to college. The program is effective in that it is required, graded and includes
special topics as well as academic content. Student feedback is good. The program runs on the goodwill
of the faculty who come forward. Nancy invited everyone to participate and to share with her any
interests we might have. She thanked Ibssa and Mary Marquez-Bell for bringing the students and the
faculty for their cooperation.
Student Government

The Student Government President commented that they have to follow SUNY procedures on how to
spend funds. Student senators will contact the Chair to work on student’s behalf. There is a need for
great commuter student participation and faculty were asked to announce this during class, as some
majors still don’t have senators.
A motion to extend the meeting for five minutes was approved unanimously.
of May 10, 2002 were then unanimously approved.

The minutes of the meeting

Announcements

Sachi Dastidar announced that Dr. Chakraborty, Professor of Management at Calcutta and former
member of the State Planning board, State of West Bengal, India, will be speaking on October 8th at
10:50 a.m. on the topic of municipal management.
Jill Edelson announced there will be survey about childcare needs. She asked the faculty to allow
students time to fill it out. The Day Care will include education and also programs for special needs
children as developed with the Association for the Help of Retarded Children.
Rita Colon-Urban announced that the schedule of proposed BPC meetings was available. She asked that
programs which have not informed the Faculty Office of the names of their senators please do so.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:40 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Madeline Crocitto
September 18, 2002