Chair’s Report
                                  9-11-2015

      Up date on activities that have occurred during the summer of 2015


Scantron  A resolution was sent to the Provost at the end of the spring
semester recommending the purchase of a scantron machine.
    • In June two representatives from Scantron came to campus and presented
      their course and event evaluation feedback system: Class Climate
    • Class climate is a computer program that can be customized to use our
      agreed upon evaluation form. The program can also add particular
      questions for individual departments.
    • The product can be linked to Blackboard. So that students during the
      evaluation time can access each of their courses survey through their
      phones or computers from their Blackboard home page.  Students can see
      the evaluations they need to complete. A popup notification reminds
      them about outstanding evaluations.
    • The time period for evaluations can be done during class time.
    •  One of the concerns that the committee discussed was the fact that
      students did not use the on-line evaluation system in the past. In the
      past every student did not have a computer available to them even the
      dorms were not equipped with internet service. This has changed. In my
      classroom every student has a smart phone. In addition students can
      complete a paper evaluation form that can then be scanned.


    • Each student can only evaluate a faculty member once.  All of the
      assessment information is gathered either on campus or through the
      Scantron computer framework, this still needs to be decided as to the
      cost of the license and annual cost of the program.
    • Each faculty member will receive an individual report. This can be
      presented in their reappointment file.
    • In July a new committee under the leadership of Ron Welton was
      established by the Provost to evaluate Course Climate. The committee
      met and requested another presentation from Scantron. On August 13th
      two representatives came to campus and to demonstrate the value of
      Course Climate. Next week on September 14th the committee will meet to
      make their recommendation to the Provost.

RABC We met on July 7th  In preparation for our campus report for SUNY
EXCELS. The Provost provided each member with SUNY data reports concerning
Old Westbury student enrollment and graduation rates. Many of the
representatives generated questions during the meeting. A decision was made
to have individual groups select 2 focus questions and to support their
responses with data. The faculty representatives: Patrick Cadet, Judy
Johnson, Lynn Walsh and myself met on July 9th for an extensive work
session. I have given you a copy of our report that we sent to Provost
O’Sullivan. Unfortunately, we were unable to meet this week.





Resolution of Residence 2.0 Policy
On May 15th, The Faculty Senate Executive Committee forwarded the
Resolution of Residence 2.0 Policy for First Year Students (First time to
SUNY College at Old Westbury)
 This resolution passed unanimously by the Full Faculty on May 8, 2015 with
reference to the current Dormitory Policy that severs students from their
residence for academic performance that falls below a 2. 0 following their
first semester of study at the college and further severs them in a second
semester with no appeals process.

A meeting was schedule with Dr. Butts and the Executive Committee, the Vice
President of Students affairs and The Director of First Year Experience.
Initially the meeting was scheduled for August 31 and rescheduled for
September 3rd and rescheduled for September 17th . The President has
requested a proposed model for academic remediation. If this is decided the
charge will be given to the Academic Policy Committee for their
consideration. As all academic policies are the purview of the faculty.

On July 22, I was asked to attend an exploratory meeting in New York City
at the Apple head Quarters. The meeting was designed to obtain and share
information about a potentially exciting, creative project using the iPad
at Old Westbury. 
I was asked to attend because the committee wanted to see firsthand, the
benefits that can accrue to faculty and students from a project like this.

On August 17th the committee met again on campus to discuss the feasibility
and implementation of the project. On Oct. 9th at the Full faculty meeting
Len Davis will make a presentation about the project. Please encourage
faculty to attend.

Because the Senate Matters:

Last fall the Executive Committee wanted to organize some events for the
50th anniversary. One of the ideas we put forth was to invite:
Congressman John Lewis and Bill Moyers to Visit Old Westbury

Dr. Butts visited Congressman John Lewis while he was in Washington and the
connection was made for him to come to Old Westbury.
    • Thursday, November 12, 2015
Mike Kinane wrote: While a formal announcement from the College is pending,
I wanted to alert you that noted civil rights activist Congressman John
Lewis and famed journalist Bill Moyers will visit SUNY Old Westbury this
fall as part of the College's 50th anniversary celebration. Congressman
Lewis, a founder of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee,
organizer of the 1963 March on Washington, and current U.S. Representative
from Georgia will visit campus to offer his insights into the civil rights
movement past, present and future.  He will joined in this discussion by
veteran journalist Bill Moyers, who for more than 50 years has covered
leaders and opinion-makers through a variety of print, radio and television
forums, including his current role as host of PBS's "Moyers & Company."

The format for this program has not been finalized yet so I cannot provide
details regarding the exact time and location.  I will provide an update as
soon as we have more information.