SUNY

COLLEGE

AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, October 15, 2004

Present
Senators:

MINUTES
I. Ahmed, E. Bever, C. Cocca, M. Dolan, A. Ebrahimi, J. Edelson, M.

Foglino, C. Franco, A. Frisken, C. Hobson, M. Keefe, H. Lewittes, A. Martinez, M.
Metlay, C. Sawyer, K. Velsor,

Ex Officio: L. Cox, L. Davis
Visitors: M. Adams, L. Anker, E. Gomez-Nieto, R. Gonzalez, N. Hegde, M. Jones, S.
Kaufmann, M. Keizer, J. Llana, Z. Madurka, S. O’Connor-Petruso, K. O’Connor-Bater,

P. O’Sullivan, N. Sacks, G. Seidman, B. Serrano,
Whitten,
AGENDA

CHANGES:

J. Song, G. Wachman, J. Weiss, L.

The chair announced the following changes to today’s agenda:

Item #3 — President is absent; Item #4 — Academic Vice-President will have 30 minutes

to include discussion of Mission Review II (copies are available here now)

1. MINUTES:

Corrections to Minutes of September 24, 2004

1. p.3 under IV, 3” bullet: “October 2002”
2. Corrections to spelling of names: Caroline Sawyer; Marie Metlay; Lynn
Walsh; Ruben Gonzalez; Patrick Cadet

3. The following are to be attached to the minutes of today’s meeting:
a) Summary of “Best Practices in the SUNY Campus Budget Process.”
b)

4. p. 2, Il:

Timeline for SEMPRA energy project (under HVAC resolution p. 4).
L Cox:

Dean of School; eliminate “search,” replace with

“description.” L. Cox disagreed with J. Edelson’s statement that he had requested a
P.-1 form to be submitted for a “search” for a dean. (However, J. Edelson confirmed
that her statement is to stand as she stated it)
5. p. 2, item 7 bullet - “if” there was an opening in the calendar.

6. Item V — Motion by K. Velsor to postpone resolution until Oct. 15 was voted
on: 12 approve; 2 oppose; 2 abstain.

Minutes were approved as corrected

2. CHAIR’S

REPORT:

1. The Executive Committee met on Oct. 7 with Aimee Bernstein, from Vice

Chancellor O’Connor’s office, and Stephen Portch, visiting chancellor, to discuss the
President’s 5 year review.
2. Sheila Farrell, Senate secretary, is moving to Enrollment Services on Oct. 28.

The Senate will need to hire another secretary ASAP.

3. Report from Academic Vice President L. Cox:

1. Mission Review II is coming along with help from faculty and staff. There are
9 sections in draft and the following subcommittees are chaired by:
a. Institutional
b. Enrollment Services
c. Faculty Governance

M. Kinane
M. M. Bell
K. Velsor (then Senate Chair)

d. Academic Affairs

Dr. Cox

:

e. Technology
M. Seybold
f. Facilities
W. Kimmins
g. Administrative Structure
M. Rankin
Faculty are requested to read and critique the entire document and make
observations on where we are and where we would like to go. Edits and corrections
should be sent to Carol Hughes, Academic Affairs Secretary.
Question:

What is the difference between AAFTE and FTE?

AAFTE

and winter, and FTE only fall and spring.
Question: What is “nationally recognized” undergraduate program?

recognized? Currently the draft says none are nationally recognized.

includes summer

Are any now

Document is due November 15, and the AVP wants to finalize it by November 1.

4. SGA REPRESENTATIVE REPORT: M. Foglino:

A statement was read from new SGA president, Laura Mason
They wish to improve the use of the Student Union
All faculty senators are invited to attend SGA meetings
They wish to improve communication with the administration

5. FUND TO COMMEMORATE

STUDENT, Jermaine Camp.

Chair suggested memorial brick or scholarship. Nancy Sacks reported that she
worked closely with him in First Year Program. He was a work study student and peer
mentor. She suggests a scholarship fund. K. Velsor suggested a sub-committee be
formed to investigate how to set up a fund to be perpetuated — dollars needed and how to
administer.

The following people volunteered to serve on sub-committee: N. Sacks, K.

Velsor, and A. Frisken.

6. BPC SLATE:

There are 5 openings on the Budget and Planning Committee, owing to

four completed terms and one resignation, as well as one continuing member, L. Zhao.

The Senate Chair serves as as ex officio member.

Following the guidelines of the BPC, a slate of candidates for the open slots was

drawn up by Executive Committee for submission to the president, who makes a final
decision on the appointments. The Executive Committee presented its slate:
J. Llana,
T. Delguidice,
M. Barrett,
F. Nieto,

R. Buttermilch (recommended by a colleague but has not yet accepted).
MOTION: A. Frisken moved to endorse the slate as presented. The motion was

seconded and passed unanimously.

7. OLD BUSINESS:

A. Resolution on decision in an ARPT case, postponed from Sept. 24
meeting, was re-presented by J.Llana as a revised resolution. (see attached). (J. Llana
presented the resolution and both he and M. Keizer also presented remarks.)
Discussion was held, including comments from Senators on process, shared
governance, accountability, and precedence. Several Senators referred to AAUP/ ACE/

AGB Statement on the Government of Colleges and Universities, which articulates

nationally recognized standards of shared governance and due process. It emphasizes
that nnly in exceptional circumstances should an administrative decision on faculty
reappointment be disjunctive with faculty recommendation.
Arguments were made that the recent decision indicates a breakdown of due
process. Others expressed concern with the precedent that for this type of resolution
might sight for the Senate. No one contests the President’s right to make decisions.
Questions were raised as to the appropriateness of including the affected faculty
member’s name and for Faculty Senate’s credibility in taking up an issue such as this..
In reply, it was pointed out that presenting the faculty member’s name provides

substance and specificity, as in a legal case. Further, the Senate should be concerned
about losing credibility if it failed to voice its opinion against a decision that contradicts
faculty judgment forged according to the Bylaws.
A Senator called for a secret ballot to vote on resolution.

Final vote: 16 approved; 1 against; 1 abstention.

B. Clerical assistance for faculty committees: topic is postponed.
C. NCATE budgeting: Topic postponed.
D. L. Davis (CFO) discussed campus budget. The NYS budget projection
for next year is a 5-6 billion dollar deficit. SUNY has been told not to expect resources
above current levels. Old Westbury’s state funded operating budget is $20.5 M. Subsidy
budget in 1999 was $3.3M from which we were eventually to be weaned; however, with

deficit this year, we are still using subsidy. Capital plan of $20.7 M is a5 year plan. W.

Kimmins could address pending projects to faculty. The goals of the 5 year plan are:

enrollment growth, improved image of OW, and financial sufficiency. Since 1999, 48
new positions were funded from subsidy. Initiatives from each department re: facilities

and enrollment will be addressed. They are trying to monitor payroll dollars on this
campus.

Question: A Senator made reference to a Newsday article in which another college in
the area (NY Institute of Technology) reported financial data for housing medical
students from St. George’s University. Where are SGU students staying and how much
income are we receiving for their housing? L. Davis responded that income from students
is under DIFR. The Senator observed that NYIT reported to Newsday the sum they had
received from SGU: $250,000 -$300,000. Pressed on the question, L. Davis declined to
give the figure for our campus, stating, “No comment.”

Question:

Will the faculty members who worked on NCATE over the summer get paid

and, if so, when?

L. Davis responded that the payment is forthcoming.

E. School Structure: L. Cox reported that there is a plan for a School of
Education with a Dean. This could be next year or 5 years from now. They are working
out what the structure would look like. Mission Review II document is “very fluid.”
B. Serrano (guest) reported that the Teacher Education Department passed a

resolution on Oct. 1 regarding their concern for the implementation of a School of
Education and it has been submitted to the Executive Committee of the Senate.
E. Bever suggested that we need to look at ways to bring money to our campus —

such as the summer program; areas of Academic Affairs could be harnessed more
effectively. Dr. Cox stated a full-time Dean could work on entrepreneurial opportunities.

ANNOUNCEMENTS:
1.

M. Keizer noted that women, one an African and one an Australian, received the

Nobel Prize. He commented on the significance of these accomplishments in

light of the College’s strong tradition of supporting women. Applause followed.
The University Senator (M. Dolan) announced that a letter from Chancellor King
to the SUNY presidents had stated that Candace deRussy resigned from the
Academic Standards Committee. The position is to be filled by a priest, John
Cremins, a teacher at St. John’s University.
3. N. Sacks announced the Alumni Association is sponsoring a first-year essay
contest. There are 4 scholarships of $500 each for the winners. Deadline is
November 5. .
4. C. Franco announced that UUP needs volunteers in Hauppauge to get out the
2.

vote. Chair noted website: www.acthere.com, where people can sign up for bus trips
to swing states (such as PA) on Nov. 2.

5. C. Cocca and A. Frisken will be planting outside Academic Village

request people to help.
6. Chair announced that we still need an At Large Representative to the Senate.

7.

and

Chair and University Senator (M. Dolan) will be attending the SUNY University

Plenary meeting on October 20.
8. J. Edelson announced that Grenada students have been assigned to Room 190 from

1-5 p.m. every day. Her workshop of 55 students that had been assigned on October
12, 12:40 pm. and confirmed the day before was bumped with no notification.

needs to be better communication between M. Dolan (Facilities) and others.

There

9. L. Anker announced that ARPT, UUP, and TLC will jointly sponsor a workshop on
November 19, at 12:30 in the Student Union. The workshop will cover discussions of
file preparation, the ARPT manual, and contracts. All departments need to have
procedures on file for reappointment and tenure and placed in the Senate Office. L.
Cox requested that L. Anker send an e-mail announcing the workshop to his office to

share with the Chairs.

Meeting was adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
M. Dolan, J. Edelson