APRIL 2018

WAVELENGTHS
United University Professions * Old Westbury Chapter

UUPers Rally For a Fair Contract

Inside this issue:

By Martha Livingston, UUP-Old Westbury Chapter President

Rally for a Fair Contract 1
Who Owns Your Syllabus?

2

An Important Supreme
Court Case

3

Snow Day Blues

4

Upcoming Events

4

NYSUT Ad on
Member Benefits

5

UUP Representatives

6

WE’RE BACK! After a
six-year hiatus, Wavelengths is back!
We’d like to invite YOU
to contribute stories, and
let us know about things
you’d like us to discuss:
academic concerns, professional concerns, contingent concerns , etc.
This issue was produced
by (in alphabetical order)
Kyle Anderson, Ryan
Baker, Martha Livingston, Carol Quirke and
Regina Scarbrough.

“What do we want? A fair contract! When do we want it? NOW!” It’s been
22 months since the end of our old contract. On March 1st, over 70 UUPOld Westbury members, along with UUPers on every campus statewide,
rallied to demand that SUNY sit down with us and negotiate a fair contract!
Our members wrote their own signs, and we rallied and chanted as we
walked around the Campus Center. The rally culminated with our handing
our petitions, signed by over 200 members, to the President’s Office asking our campus administration to put some pressure on the Chancellor to
get this contract done.
Featured at our rally was a message of solidarity brought by CSEA-Old
Westbury President Tommy Noble; a number of other CSEA members also joined and marched with us in solidarity. Dom D’Angelo, 4, the son of
member Phil D’Angelo, also brought his own message of urgency: “My
daddy needs more money!”

Page 2

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

WHO OWNS YOUR SYLLABUS? by Carol Quirke, American Studies
Digital media has disrupted the travel industry, print media, the music industry, the taxi industry—and
of course it is shaping higher education as well. Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) were touted by
The New York Times and the Chronicle of Higher Education as game-changers. The MOOC revolution has
not yet transpired, but online, hybrid and flipped courses are altering higher education. Two digital developments threaten UUP members’ intellectual property rights. All faculty should be aware of possible encroachments by companies and some SUNY administrators and of what UUP members can do to address this concern.
New companies aimed at selling professors’ course materials are popping up. Companies like Study
Blue, Course Hero, Study Soup, and Chegg Study take professors’ course material from students—things
like syllabi, exams, course notes, homework notes and study guides—and then sell them to other students.
(Entry to the sites often requires providing such materials.) SUNY Old Westbury School of Business materials were found on Study Blue and Course Hero, for example, and Biology exam support was found on
Course Hero. Chegg Study offers students photographs of quizzes taken by students in the Physics Department. Study Soup offers notes from multiple classes.
The union is asking departments or professors who are facing the theft of intellectual property to alert
them. The statewide UUP Vice President of Academics is Jamie Dangler, who can be reached at (800) 3424206, or jdangler@uupmail.org. The union is compiling examples of this practice and is consulting with attorneys at New York State United Teachers (NYSUT) about possible options to address this problem. Of
course some professors may wish to have some course materials shared in this way; SUNY Policies of the
Board of Trustees’ “Title J” clarifies that such materials belong to professors, and that they alone have the
right to share their materials. (See http://system.suny.edu/media/suny/content-assets/documents/
boardoftrustees/SUNY-BOT-Policies-June2014.pdf)
Additionally, at some campuses, professors are being informally pressured to make their online materials perpetually available to the university, thereby bypassing the professor’s right to share materials. The
union suggests offering a one-time permission that would require the university to ask for permission again if
it wishes to pass materials along to others a second time. Lest this seem overly cautious, when Long Island
University faculty went out on strike in fall 2016, administrators taught classes from faculty syllabi. While
SUNY faculty cannot strike due to the Taylor law, one can imagine circumstances where a faculty member
could lose control of their course material. Many departments enjoy collegial relations, where syllabi, readings, and other course material are regularly shared. Nonetheless, our intellectual labor was engaged in developing courses, and faculty should be aware that they retain the rights for their intellectual property.
The union is taking other actions in addition to exploring legal options. UUP’s statewide leadership
has recommended that its campus chapter officers discuss the sale of syllabi with administration to explore
possible campus actions such as revising the Student Code of Conduct. UUP also recommends that faculty
put their copyright on course materials and consider covering this in courses and workshops that cover plagiarism and copyright issues. They have been in communication with University Faculty Senate leaders and
believe both student governance and campus faculty governance should be apprised of these pressures on
faculty. Our campus administration has asked to work with us to guard against these encroachments.
UUP’s Geneseo chapter has presented a resolution to address this problem to its campus senate. It
has been shared with all UUP chapters as a possible model for UUP-Senate collaboration. Finally, UUP has
brought this up in Labor-Management meetings with SUNY Central, which has agreed to inform individual
campuses of members’ concerns, and their rights through the Board of Trustees Policies. Many campuses
have developed clear policies regarding online education to clarify that faculty own their course materials regardless of how a course is taught. SUNY Potsdam has one of the clearest and best examples of campus
policies on this.
Interested in more information about intellectual property rights? The union has provided this broad
overview: http://uupinfo.org/reports/reportpdf/IntellectualPropertyUpdated2018.pdf.

Page 3

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

AN IMPORTANT SUPREME COURT CASE by Kyle Anderson, History & Philosophy
Last February, Randi Weingarten, the President of the American Federation of Teachers [UUP’s parent union] spoke to a group of teachers from across Long Island about the Supreme Court case of Janus vs.
AFSCME. Mark Janus is an employee of the Illinois state government, and he felt his rights were violated
when he was forced to pay “agency fees” to the union that had used collective bargaining to negotiate his
contract, even though he was not a member of the union.
Agency fees have long been collected by unions to compensate them for the work they do in negotiating contracts and representing employees in grievances and arbitrations. Because all employees benefit from
these activities regardless of whether or not they join the union, agency fees are an important way for unions
to prevent so-called “free rider problems,” where people can benefit from the union without contributing anything to it.
While Mr. Janus has claimed that his personal free speech rights are violated when he pays a fee to
the union that has negotiated his contract, the powerful allies he has attracted have not joined the fight out of
any altruistic concern for the first amendment. The right-wing State Policy Network, where Mr. Janus has
posted videos, recently stated of his case: “this is our opportunity to defund and de-fang one of our freedom
movement’s most powerful opponents: the government unions.” The Janus case is not about free speech, it
is about union-busting, and it is funded by billionaire donors like the Koch Brothers.
With President Trump’s recent appointee, Neil Gorsuch, joining the court one year ago, the Janus
case may well be decided in favor of the plaintiff. But that is not cause for despair. We will fight back against
Janus by convincing people of the benefits of their union. We need to sign even more people up, and show
people who are hesitant to pay agency fees that we are not abandoning them, and that we appreciate their
membership.

Martha Livingston, President, Old Westbury UUP, Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of
Teachers, and Kyle Anderson, Faculty Member, History & Philosophy (L to R)

Page 4

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

SNOW DAY BLUES by Ryan Baker, Information Technology
Roughly 170 miles separate the campus of SUNY Old Westbury and the Governor's Mansion
in the state capital of Albany. While Long Island is surrounded by deep seawater for miles in nearly
every direction, Albany is a mostly-landlocked city perched on the shore of the Hudson River, a
mere 878 feet wide and 12 feet deep. These two locations are separated by both considerable distance and localized climates, making it all the more difficult to understand why the decision to cancel
classes and activities for the safety of our students and faculty can be made locally by a group of
administrators, but the decision to order the campus closed for the safety of the professional staff
can be made only by the Governor, who sits more than a hundred and fifty miles away and whose
view out the window gives no indication whatsoever of the severity of inclement weather in Nassau
County.
When the decision is made in Old Westbury to cancel classes, students and faculty can stay
home in relative safety, whereas the professional staff are expected to report to work to provide service to an empty campus, or else expend a day of hard-earned vacation time. This creates an unsafe situation in which professional staff are compelled to risk commuting to work on dangerous
roads to arrive at a campus whose pathways and parking lots have not yet been cleared.
What kind of mixed message does such a system create when the county has been declared
a state of emergency, travel advisories have been issued, and yet our campus offices remain open
and our professional staff are still being asked to report to work? Why can't our professional staff be
afforded the same simple courtesy of a "snow day" extended to our faculty and students? I suspect
that a sizable number of SUNY Old Westbury UUP members would be curious to learn the answers.

Upcoming Events:


Coming Soon: Department Rep. meeting. Watch this space!



Chapter Action Project (CAP) fun event! Wednesday, May 2nd, MPR B, drop in
any time from 12:30 to 3:30 for “Take a Break,” to ask questions and play
games, win prizes, and partake of coffee and cookies.



General Membership Meeting & Picnic, 12:00pm-3:00pm, Wednesday, May
23rd, 2018, Campus Center.



Chapter Outing to Mets game, 1:00pm, Sunday June 3rd, 2018 vs. the Chicago
Cubs. Contact office if interested.

APRIL 2018

WAVELENGTHS

Page 5

Page 6

WAVELENGTHS

APRIL 2018

United University Professions
SUNY Old Westbury Chapter
Campus Center E204

UUP Old Westbury Chapter Office
Chapter Assistant:
Mary Navarra
Chapter Office Hours:
Tuesday-Friday
10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Phone: (516)333-5770
E-mail: oldwestbury@uupmail.org
UUP website: www.uupinfo.org
NEW! Chapter Website:
www.oldwestburyuup.wordpress.com

WHO IS YOUR DEPARTMENT REP?
If you can’t answer this question, it could be
that your department does not yet have a department rep. Call the UUP office (333-5770)
and ask our Chapter Assistant, Mary Navarra,
who your department rep is. If there isn’t one
yet, how about YOU??

Old Westbury UUP Chapter
President:
Chapter Assistant
VP Academic:
VP Professional:
Secretary:
Treasurer:
Officer for Contingents:
Officer for Retirees:
VOTE-COPE Coordinator:
Delegates (Academic):
Delegates (Professional):
Labor Relations Specialist:

Martha Livingston
Mary Navarra
Carol Quirke
Eliliana Martinez
Peter Ikeler
Eric Doucet
Victor Visconti
Delores James
Ana Martinez
Eileen Landy
Ashlee Lien
Steve Samuel
Candelario Franco
Ana Martinez
Rafat Sada
Lynda Larson
llarson@nysutmail.org

The opinions expressed in this newsletter are those of the contributors
and not necessarily those of United University Professions