Point of Information 

Prepared by Parliamentarian (Maureen Dolan) 

Faculty Senate Meeting of April 27, 2018

Faculty Senate Activities: an Overview



Background: 

Actions and Activities undertaken by Faculty Senate may span weeks, months or semesters.

Faculty Senate activities include resolutions, reports, initiatives, hearings, town halls, investigations, analyses, task forces, establishment of new Standing or college-wide committees, joint effort.  

Areas of Faculty Senate activity include broad matters within the Authority of the Faculty, as empowered through Policies of SUNY Board of Trustees, through established governance structure, consistent with UFS standards and practices. 

Breadth and depth of FS activities include matters of the educational program, student life, facilities, quality of life, budget, planning, operations, campus development, ethics, energy and sustainability.

Effective outcomes from Faculty Senate activities contribute to institutional effectiveness.   





A Brief Sampling of Faculty Senate Activities 



In Matters of the Educational Program:

Deliberation and approval to establish Honors College.

Deliberation and approval of Latin Honors; approval of policy to establish Grade Point Average.

Deliberation and approval of Master Plan amendment to allow granting of Graduate Degrees.

Deliberation and approval of change to Selectivity matrix for FTC students.

Facilitation of Special Meetings of the Faculty regarding NCATE accreditation.

Deliberation and approval for departments within each School to be represented on Faculty Senate.

Faculty Senate-led initiative for local control of General Education: program design, rubrics and assessment, in collaboration with UFS task force, leading to establishment of GEC (now LEC).  



In Matters of Student Life 

Deliberation and actions regarding minimum GPA for Freshmen Residents (including presentation of FS resolution to College Council).

Deliberation and actions regarding zero-tolerance policy (including presentation to College College).

Comprehensive initiative regarding revisions to college judicial process and Code for Student Conduct (including presentations to College Council).

Establishment of Faculty Judicial Committee as part of college judicial process (involved revision to Faculty Bylaws, 2009).



In Matters of Campus Development

Actions in opposition to building Nassau County Police Academy on Old Westbury campus, involved College Council Chair and NC Police Commissioner appearing at Faculty Senate hearing.  

Faculty Senate-led hearings on proposed Land Lease Legislation (1998-1999) which would allow campus development such as Sports/medicine complex, hotel/conference center, residential housing proposed for Old Westbury.

Faculty Senate-led hearings on Open Space Preservation Legislation (1999-2000) to counteract Land Lease Legislation and proposed development projects on Old Westbury campus.

Faculty Senate comments in response to State University Construction Fund re. Parking Lot Project and Short Environmental Impact Form (SEIF) prepared by SUCF contractor for DEC (2018).    



Page 2 of 2



In Matters of the Physical Plant

Faculty Senate-led investigation of IEQ (indoor environmental quality), including air quality, health, safety, cleanliness of campus facilities (per APPA standards) with focus on Academic Village; facilities reports initiated by FS were brought to attention of SUNY, other state agencies (1995-1997).       

Faculty Senate-led energy audit of Old Westbury campus, with focus on Academic Village; energy analysis initiated by FS came to the attention of SUNY and NYSERDA (1997-1998).   

Regular reports to Faculty Senate on energy conservation, energy efficiency, renewable energy projects proposed for Old Westbury by NYSERDA, SAIC, LIPA, EnLink GeoEnergy (1998-2002).

Establishment of Campus Green Committee (ad hoc college-wide committee convened 2009-2010) per mandate SUNY Energy & Sustainability Policy, enacted by SUNY Board of Trustees, Nov.2007; re-establishment of Campus Green Committee included in 2018-2023 Strategic Plan. 



In Matters of Budget, Planning and Institutional Effectiveness

Faculty Senate-led Strategic Plan (in response to Rethinking SUNY, 1995) identified over $1Mil in cost savings as an alternative to retrenchment of academic programs and faculty; FS Strategic Plan was delivered by college’s CFO as campus response to pending 10% reduction in operating budget.  

Faculty Senate-led budget analyses, all divisions, including benchmarking vs. peer institutions and development of metrics for institutional effectiveness, informed by best practices in SUNY campus budget process (2000-2002).

Regular reports to Faculty Senate by Senate representative from College-wide Budget Planning Committee (1992-2002); Senator from BPC is codified in Faculty Bylaws. 

Faculty Senate-led 360 Review of senior administration, including performance indicators for academic and non-academic units (all divisions), analyses and metrics for institutional effectiveness, including in areas of resource allocation, M&O, student support, institutional advancement; 300 page report initiated by FS was provided to SUNY Chancellor, College Council, Board of Trustees (1997).   

Faculty Senate joint effort in Strategic Planning during the past two decades, including in 1998, 1999-2000, 2008-2010, and most recently, joint effort in 2016-18 for 2018-2023 Strategic Plan. 



In Matters of Governance Outreach 

Faculty Senate-led investigation, at the behest of 400+ students who signed petition sent to FS Office, regarding alleged misconduct by faculty in a certain department; report of ad hoc Ethics Committee was presented at special meeting of FS (June 1996); broader recommendations led to establishment of Faculty Rights & Responsibilities Committee as a Special (now standing) Committee of the Senate  

Faculty Senate initiative to improve the proportion and composition of faculty participation in governance; concerted effort resulted in faculty participation increasing from 35% to 50% of faculty, including improved balance of senior and junior faculty (2005-2009). 

FS activities to improve interface with SGA, including outreach to SGA to fill 3 seats on Faculty Senate, FS workshops on the budget at SGA meetings, outreach by faculty on Residential Life (and other committees) for students to bring concerns and actionable items to Faculty Senate.    

Faculty Senate initiative to improve interface with the College Council, including regular written reports to the Council; invitation to members and chair of College Council to attend FS meetings.