SUNY Old Westbury

Campus GREEN Committee

 Maureen Dolan, Chair



Update for the Faculty Senate (10/18/19)



President Butts recently authorized re-establishment of our Campus Green Committee. This committee is intended to engage the campus community (faculty, students and staff) in initiatives that will advance Old Westbury as a Green Campus, consistent with the college’s Strategic Plan, Mission and Values. 



Campus Green Committee will support SUNY and NYS goals related to renewable energy, sustainability and climate action, and coordinate with regional, statewide and national organizations on energy, environment and climate change. 

SUNY Sustainability Coalition has adopted UN Goals for Sustainable Development. These goals extend beyond green energy, greenhouse gas emissions and environment, to addressing income inequality and ending poverty. 

New York Coalition for Sustainability in Higher Education, comprised of public and private colleges. NYCSHE facilitates workshops, webinars, student contests, and promotes green programs and sharing of information.



Campus Green Committee will explore campus-wide initiatives and opportunities for external funding, such as relates to:  

REV Campus Challenge: the state-wide initiative which focuses on Governor’s “Reforming the Energy Vision” for transition to 100% renewable energy. 

Climate Action and Community Leadership Act: ambitious legislation passed by NYS in November 2108

NYSERDA: which administers billions of dollars for energy, environmental and climate action projects, through a range of competitive program opportunities. (M. Dolan has secured NYSERDA funding since the late 1990’s for various campus and SUNY-wide energy/sustainability initiatives.)     

Recycle-mania: student-led nationwide recycling contest, which can be facilitated through Green Committee.

Campus Crunch: statewide initiative to raise awareness of local food sourcing.   

National Rankings of Green Campuses, including by U.S News & World Report, Sierra Cool Schools.



In preliminary meetings with M. Dolan, Dr. Butts indicated that initial focus of re-convened Campus Green Committee should be the new STEM Building and development of proposals for urgently needed funding. The Green Committee: 

Will explore possible campus-wide initiatives in support of STEM. 

Promote and articulate a vision for the future of the college, for advancement of sustainability and social justice. 

Build connections between new STEM building (physical plant) and innovative programs and activities in support of climate action and environmental stewardship.



We are building on success. The Campus Green Committee, initially convened ad hoc in 2009-2010, was very productive: 

Undertook Sustainability Audit whose findings were presented at state-wide conference

Expanded recycling and use of green materials on campus

Began organic garden and mapping project. 

Student participants in Sustainability Audit presented at Research Day: seven (7) research projects on energy/emissions, recycling, water conservation, glacial aquifer, and sustainability in dining services.    



Getting started: please get in touch with Maureen Dolan if you are interested in serving on Campus Green Committee. Bring this information back to your departments and those you represent. Kick-off meeting in a few weeks. Green Committee invites all those interested (faculty, staff, students) to participate. Work will be organized through sub-committees, such as energy/emissions, climate action, recycling, food and water, residential life, raising awareness.



-----------------------------------

Dr. Maureen Dolan

Mathematics/CIS Department

Parliamentarian, Faculty Senate

Campus Green Committee, Chair

New York Coalition for Sustainability in Higher Education: 

NYCSHE Regional Representative for the Long Island Region

Email: 74601.1372@compuserve.com