PROCEDURES

FOR TESTING STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES

I
Faculty should proctor their own exams for students with disabilities as long as
they ensure that the students receive all reasonable accommodations for which they are
entitled. In all instances, students with disabilities shall meet the same requirements that
other students meet. They shall be tested over the same material using the same test.

However, there may be occasions where additional time is requested and/or needed;

faculty shall be accommodating and fair.

AND

II
For students who need special accommodations, special equipment and
technology are located at OSSD. Faculty shall select the date, time, and duration of

exams for their students with disabilities. Faculty should adhere to the procedures listed
in the OSSD handout “Instructions for Professors of Students Taking Exams at OSSD”.

This handout can be obtained from OSSD.

The procedure requires that faculty send

exams to OSSD in a timely manner in sealed envelopes with appropriate instructions if

faculty cannot be present. In the absence of faculty, the exams will be proctored by Mr.
William Lupardo. OSSD will make every attempt to be responsible for the safety and
security of exams when these procedures are followed.

All exams proctored by Mr.

Lupardo will be returned to professors in sealed envelopes with the signature of OSSD
staff across the seal. If the seal is broken, please contact OSSD immediately.
The Coordinator is available to advise and assist faculty in issues related to

proctoring exams in a confidential manner while allowing students to have the necessary

accommodations.

Faculty is encouraged to discuss with the Coordinator this and any

other matter pertaining to the academic needs of students with disabilities at any time.

The integrity of the exam process remains a priority along with advocating that

students receive all reasonable accommodations for which they qualify.

Therefore all

reasonable safeguards will be employed to protect the exam process and student rights.