Minutes
Faculty Meeting
September 14, 2001
Attendance: 81
Minutes
The minutes of the May 4" faculty meeting were accepted with a correction to the last

item: Two, rather than one student, were victims of racial incidents near Penn State, and

they were not Penn State students.
Chair’s Report
a.

b.

(Dr. Colon-Urban)

All Bylaws revisions were passed, although the number of votes was
disappointingly low.
There was complete agreement between recommendations of the ARPT
Committee and those of the Administration.
The UUP report was inadvertently left off today’s agenda, and will be included
after the Budget and Planning Committee Report.

Academic Vice President Report (Dr. Bonnett)
a.
Dr. Bonnett urged all to avoid divisiveness in the wake of the World Trade Center
tragedy and suggested that faculty hold a teach-in to air views and emotions.
b.
Enrollment for the Fall semester is at 103% of target FTE.
c.
The campus has moved ahead on several fronts: a General Education booklet has
been printed, plans for graduate programs are moving forward, the TLC played a
role in new faculty orientation, new degrees in Social Studies, Biochemistry and
Visual Arts are in progress, all faculty have received laptop computers, the
Performing Arts department is being reconstituted withe the help of a consultant,

plans for an Honors Program are soon to be distributed, and the Freshman Studies
Program is running.
The budget situation will be especially challenging this year in light of the
economic downturn and the events of September 11".

President’s Report (Dr. Butts)
a.

Dr. Butts announced that he has been involved in the aftermath of the terrorist
attack. He urged faculty to carry on, and not to be arrested by fear. He expressed
his hope that academic debates on the attack will proceed on campus in an
atmosphere of tolerance.
Enrollments have met the Strategic Plan target. We accepted 50% of first-timeto-college applicants, and retention has improved. We also have improved
relations with local community colleges.
Dr. Butts thanked N. Rosenthal and R. Colon-Urban for their work on the Middle
States report, and thanked M. Seybold and T. DelGiudice for technology
improvements.

d.

e.
f.

Several staffing changes are in effect: Bill Kimmins is now the assistant to the
President for administration. Maintenance has ben improving under his
leadership. Len Davis is the new fiscal manager, and Craig Wright is now acting
vice president for student affairs. A search will be conducted for this position.
There is a new Foundation Board.
The student Union is scheduled for completion in May 2002, and dormitory
construction will resume this fall, with an anticipated completion date of August
2002 for two of the dormintories.
The land use legislation is now superceded by new legislation that allows the
campus to develop a day care center and the equestrian center, and to set aside
350 acres to remain forever wild. SUNY opposes the legislation, preferring to
keep development plans out of the legislature. The President is committed to protecting water and open spaces, and to avoid over development, but feels that
the 350 acre set-aside is excessive.

New staff
New faculty and library staff were introduced.
Technology Issues (T. DelGiudice)
There are a number of technology changes this year. Smart classrooms are already in
place. Faculty must pick up swipe cards from campus police in order to access smart
classrooms. C. Keyes is facilitating individual faculty web sites - contact him at
KeyesC@oldwestbury.edu for further information. Policies and procedures in this area
are being developed, and will be communicated by mail. Faculty were asked to be
patient and flexible as these changes occur.
Faculty Fund (J. Lloyd)
Faculty were encouraged to contribute to the faculty fund, which is used to express

support for members of the community in difficult circumstances.
suggested levels for contribution will be mailed this week.
Common

A memo with

Hour (T. Johnson)

There is $12,000 earmarked for common hour activities for the 2001/2002 academic year.
There is a tentative schedule, but volunteers are needed to help organize events. Also
needed are additional details for proposals that have already been submitted. Several
names were suggested: Teoh, Whitten, Gil.
Report from the Budget and Planning Committee (M. Dolan)
Two subgroups of the BPC have been formed: Capital Planning and Strategic Planning.
The Capital plan is finalized, and will be made available for faculty review. We expect to
receive only a portion of the $100 million identified in the needs assessment. Highest
priority will be given to health and safety improvements.

10.

11.

UUP Report (C. Franco)
UUP is conducting a letter writing campaign regarding the dire budget situation. Form
letters can be found on the web site (www.uupinfo.org) or by contacting the UUP office.
Resolution on naming Performing Arts (PA) Department

O. Hicks presented the rationale for naming the revived PA Department after Professor
Emeritus Makanda Ken McIntyre. She added the names of two sponsors, B. Serrano and
P. O’Sullivan, to the resolution. Letters of support from former president J. Maguire, and
PA faculty member R. Harper were read, and several faculty members spoke in favor of
the motion. Mr. Karl McIntyre thanked the faculty for considering this resolution to
honor his father.
A vote was taken and the resolution passed unanimously.
Letters of support are on file in the Faculty Senate office.

The meeting adjourned at 2:50 pm