For Senate Consideration – Resolutions and Actions

(Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate – SUNY College at Old Westbury
2/24/15

1. Senate Support of SUNY-wide Student Assembly and Veteran Students
Resolution : see below (SUNY COW Faculty Senate should consider support of
this UFS resolution)
Resolution in support of the General Assembly of the Student Assembly of
the State University of New York’s 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success resolution
1415-36

Resolution
      January 23rd, 2015
      Resolution in support of the General Assembly of the Student Assembly
      of the State University of New York’s 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success
      resolution 1415-36


      SUBMITTED BY:  SUNY University Faculty Senate Student Life Committee
      Whereas, there is an increasing number of veterans and their
      dependents/family members attending Colleges and Universities1; and


      Whereas, veterans and their dependents/family members have been
      identified as a student group that may face unique challenges upon
      arrival to campus; and


      Whereas, the number of beneficiaries of federal veterans educational
      support programs exceeded 35,000 in New York state in fiscal year
      20132; and


      Whereas, on 10 August 2013, U.S. President Obama, during a speech at
      the Disabled American Veterans Conference3, presented the “8 Keys to
      Veterans’ Success”, a voluntary initiative supported by the U.S.
      Departments of Education, Veterans Affairs, and Defense4 (Appendix);
      and


      Whereas, on 20 October 2014, the General Assembly of the Student
      Assembly of the State University of New York passed the 8 Keys to
      Veteran’s Success resolution 1415-36 to encourage more SUNY campuses
      to participate by signing this voluntary initiative5; and


      Whereas, it has been demonstrated on campuses that have adopt the 8
      Keys to Veteran’s Success, success the assimilation of the student
      veterans into the College community has been enhanced


      Whereas, as of 6 January 2015, one thousand three hundred and seventy
      five (1,375) Colleges and Universities Nationwide have committed to
      the 8 Keys to Veteran’s Success, of those only sixteen (16) are State
      University of New York institutions; therefore


      Be It Resolved that the State University of New York University
      Faculty Senate supports the General Assembly of the Student Assembly
      of the State University Resolution #1415-36; and


      Be it Further Resolved that the State University of New York
      University Faculty Senate (SUNY UFS) asks that campus governance
      leaders encourage their campuses to review, adopt, and actively
      participate in, the voluntary initiative, “8 Keys of Veterans’
      Success”; and


      Finally Be it Resolved that the SUNY UFS encourages the SUNY
      Chancellor to ask each campus President to review, and report, to the
      campus community and the SUNY Chancellor on the veteran specific
      services provided by their campuses to ensure that our veteran
      students succeed to the best of their abilities.


      1 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/10/17/veterans-enroll-in-
      college_n_4117250.html
      2 http://www.benefits.va.gov/REPORTS/abr/ABR-Education-FY13-
      09262014.pdf
      3 http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/08/10/remarks-first-
      lady-and-president-disabled-american-veterans-convention
      4 http://www.ed.gov/veterans-and-military-families/8-keys-success-
      sites
      5 http://www.sunysa.org/wp-content/uploads/SUNYSA-Resolution-1415-36-
      Military-Success.pdf


      Appendix:
        The 8 Keys to Veterans’ Success:
   1. Create a culture of trust and connectedness across the campus
      community to promote well-being and success for veterans.
        2. Ensure consistent and sustained support from campus leadership.
        3. Implement an early alert system to ensure all veterans receive
           academic, career, and financial advice before challenges become
           overwhelming.
        4. Coordinate and centralize campus efforts for all veterans,
           together with the creation of a designated space for them (even
           if limited in size).
        5. Collaborate with local communities and organizations, including
           government agencies, to align and coordinate various services
           for veterans.
        6. Utilize a uniform set of data tools to collect and track
           information on veterans, including demographics, retention, and
           degree completion.
        7. Provide comprehensive professional development for faculty and
           staff on issues and challenges unique to veterans.
      Develop systems that ensure sustainability of effective practices for
      veterans


(2) Item 2 Resolution to other campuses or request UUP COW Leadership to
take the lead with regard to SUNY-wide Family Leave policy – to UUP Central
Oswego-interested in governance issues, i.e. difficulty meeting a quorum
making it sometime difficult to make changes. Push towards online and
hybrid classes with no process in place for oversight. How are other
campuses handling engagement?  Concern about the fact that there is no
standard (federal model) family leave policy including maternity and
paternity leave across SUNY units. UFS might be willing to address UUP,
since leave is a function of terms and conditions of employment. Can we
address a resolution to the Union

3. Item 3. Resolution on Experiential Learning – Governor’s imposition –
Importance of Shared governance in determining SUNY-wide graduation
requirements.

What defines “experiential learning”?
What are the specific requirements
What are the mechanisms by which individual units/sectors will actualize
expectations for every student?



Q. What plans are currently in place to make this educational objective
real?
Chancellor’s Response: In terms of experiential learning, there is some of
this idea in the 2010 strategic plan and we have been acting on the notion
that finding real world opportunities is something we should consider. 150
people convened to discuss how applied learning would manifest and engage
students and we received testimony from people in career services. Half of
our student body always engages in required clinical experiences, so we are
looking at students who want more of this but are part of programs that
don’t necessarily provide it. Applied learning experience can be defined as
everything: volunteerism, service learning, internships, laboratory work,
and StartUp NY. We can’t ensure this without getting the governor’s support
for funding. To the degree that we need insurances the quality is there, we
expect supervision, product, evaluation, fit with curriculum. The resources
will provide the oversight to make all of this available to our students.
The person leading the conversations is from Binghamton and there is a lot
of support for this idea. The idea is to power up the best practices and
make them viable across the state system.  How are we going to manage the
next steps, because we are a long way from implementing this. Opportunity
to talk about defining resources, etc. and she welcomes a task force, but
doesn’t want to start from ground zero, because there have already been
discussions on this topic.

Item 4 with regard to Diversity and Opposing Conditions of Governor’s
Budget
A. SUNY EXCELS has a performance measure for diversity and access.  A UFS
Senator challenged the SUNY EXCELS Model, explaining that Graduation Rates,
Time to Graduation, Lack of Financial support and increased tuition and
costs to students undermines expansion of diversity goals and access to
socio-economically fragile NYS students and those in the less well funded
and more challenged end of the educational pipeline who are less able to be
competitively prepared for success via the same time frames, especially if
these students are working full/part time while attending college, in order
to pay for the education they receive.
SUNY COW was publically acknowledged as the most diverse in its student,
faculty and staff composition of any SUNY Campus.

B. Preparation of a Resolution to the Governor addressing the elimination
of additional funding provided in the 2014/15 Enacted budget for EOP,
ATTAIN, Cornell Veterinary College, and Stony Brook Marine Animal
Laboratory. And to reinstate a $300M “loss” (cut) to Cornell Cooperative
Extension Programs and no finding at all for University Hospitals. Upstate,
U Buff, Stony Brook or Downstate?.
 There is $400m in Governor’s budget for ANY hospital in the state that
addresses health care delivery in underserved/low income communities, but,
SUNY Hospitals are the teaching hospitals of the SUNY Medical Colleges.

University Faculty Resolution 3  - Supports the Chancellor’s budget request
to the Governor this year.

      Resolution in Support of the 2015 Budget Request of the State
      University of New York


      Submitted by: the Executive Committee of the University Faculty Senate
      - January 23, 2015


      Whereas, the State University of New York has demonstrated itself to
      be an excellent steward of state construction funding over the past
      five years, and


      Whereas, the State University of New York has used the investments
      provided by NY SUNY2020 wisely and well, by developing a large number
      of new academic programs in high-needs areas, and


      Whereas, the State University of New York has created a comprehensive
      performance based assessment system that allows for each campus to
      determine its areas of focused improvement, and


      Whereas, the State University of New York has initiated Open SUNY, an
      integrated system of distance education that allows for campus program
      initiatives and faculty authority over the curriculum, and


      Whereas, the SUNY Board of Trustees has submitted a budget request for
      2015-16 that would increase State funding to SUNY to cover mandated
      and inflationary costs and establish two new funds:  a $50 million-per-
      year Master Innovator program and a $50 million-per-year Innovation
      Fund, each for five years;


      Therefore, Be It Resolved,


      The University Faculty Senate of the State University of New York most
      strongly endorses and supports the 2015-16 budget request of the Board
      of Trustees of the State University of New York, and be it further


      Resolved the UFS urges faculty and staff colleagues to advocate for
      SUNY on behalf of this budget request.


Passed by majority vote 1/24/15 – Debate included concerns about supporting
a SUNY budget that in and of itself may fail to meet the needs of the
system’s units

5. Item 5. SUNY Excels intersects with and impacts Diversity Issues
Budget Issues above in Item 4.
Provost’s Office Report – Alex Cartwright, Ph.D. Provost and Executive Vice
Chancellor
SUNY Excels framework that allows us to measure what we are doing and pick
things that are mission critical and widely inclusive.
Five priority areas: Access, Completion, Success, Inquiry (used to be
Research), and Engagement
Institution will have different goals and there is ability for institutions
to define their measures.
Seventeen metrics (from over 200) and met with faculty and other groups to
get to this point. (F. Guerrero shall report on the metrics pending access
via UFS leadership or SUNY Provost’s Office).
Next steps: Target setting—how to define them and set targets. Telling
SUNY’s story—adding clarity to our communications about current
performance, path to improvement, and accountability.
Student Data Brief—First Year Retention: 4-year campuses exceed the
national averages. Tech centers have improved 9% over last 10 years.
Graduation Rates: 4, 5 & 6-year rates continue to increase.