STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FULL FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, November 3, 2017 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location S-100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Senators Present:  Andrew Mattson (Chair), Maureen Keefe (Vice Chair, PEL), Jennie D’Ambroise (M&CS, Secretary/Treasurer), Minna Barrett (Immediate Past University Senator), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, M&CIS), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (EOP, Professional), Laura Anker (FYE), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Yu Lei (MMF), Andrew Hashey (EE), Clara Barber (AS), Deepa Jani (EN), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Seojung Jung (PY), Shijian Li (PH), Dana Prewitt (SY), Frank Sanacory (CAP), Llana Barber (LEC), Jill Crocker (TLRC), Ashlee Lien (TLRC), Eric Hagan (VA), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC), Blidi Stemm (CE), Runi Mukherji (Alt. Univ. Sen.)



Senators Absent:  William Gillis (SAS, Senator At-Large), Evan Rufrano (SGA), Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Jillian Nissen (BS), Judy Lloyd (CP), Jingyi Song (H&P), Fernando Guerrero (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (ARPT), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Barbara Hillery (SAS Dean), Wayne Edwards (VP SA), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB)



Faculty Present:  Oluwasheyi Oladipo, Benedette Adewale, Maria Cabail, Carolyn Cocca, Rita Colon-Urban, Sachi Dastidar, Tom DelGiudice, Anahi Douglas, Bonnie Eannone, Julio Gonzalez, Chris Hartmann, Myong-Hi Kim, Tom Lilly, Anissa Lynch, Joseph Manfredi, Laurette Morris, Rose Muzio, Lorenz Neuwirth, Chris Notaro, DoYoung Park, Kinning Poon, Joanne Spadaro, Sarah Smith, Margaret Torrell, Lisa Whitten, Lori Zaikowski



Visitors:  Anthony Barbera, Yumi Nicholson, Omar Estrada Torres, Duncan Quarless





DRAFT MINUTES

			

			   I.	Call to Order at 12:40 p.m.							

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of May 5, 2017

			

			On p. 4, on the top paragraph, on the 2nd last line “steering committee” should be “coordinating committee”.

			The minutes are approved as amended by voice vote.

			

			 III.	FS Chair’s Report 

			

Strategic Planning Process:  The Faculty Senate Chair Pro-Tem has assumed the role of co-chair of the Strategic Planning Process. The work is ongoing.  Anthony Barbara will be reporting on the status of the Strategic Plan during the Provost’s Report today.

University Faculty Senate:  We still do not have a University Faculty Senator or an Alternate Faculty Senator.   We do have a one nomination for Faculty Senator.  We are hoping to hold a special election as soon as we have at least one nomination for Alternate Faculty Senator.  Please help us fill these two important vacancies for faculty governance.

Agenda Items for Meeting with the Provost, 11/8?  The executive committee of the faculty senate will be meeting with the provost on November 8th.  If anyone wishes the executive committee to raise an issue with the provost please email be before Wednesday November 8th.

Agenda Items for Meeting with the President 11/16?  The executive committee will be meeting with the President on Thursday, November 16th.  We have been asked to submit an agenda for the meeting.  If anyone wishes to have the executive committee add an item to the agenda for our meeting with the president please email me by Friday November 10th.

One More At-Large Member for ARPT:   There is one remaining seat on the ARPT committee that must be filled before the end of the semester.    We are looking for any

SAS: AS, HI, CP, MA, PH, PY, SY, VA,  (not from: BS, EL, ML, PEL.) 

SOB: May be from Accounting.

SOE: May be from Childhood or Adolescence (Exceptional is already represented) and, if on a Joint Appointment, the auxiliary department can't be one already represented on ARPT.

			

			

			IV.  	President’s Report

			

			Congratulations to Andy Mattson for being our new Pro-Tem FS chair.

			Thank you to the faculty for all of the work you do in and out of the classroom.  Dr. Butts has had the good fortune of sitting with new faculty for lunch.  Welcome to all new faculty.  Thank you also to the deans, assistant deans, advisors, and more, for all the work you do for the support of this record-breaking fall with our unprecedented enrollment.  More than 650 first time to college students, and we had a growth in transfer students.  We have a structural budget deficit of 6.5 million.  The only way to address that is with continued growth.  The work of the SP committee is crucial for our growth.  

			We introduced parking field B.  We are looking into alternatives to parking field B especially for the winter months.  The full Clark Center lot is available now.  Aside from certain peak hours we are able to accommodate all parking.  Faculty has expressed concerns about designated faculty parking.  We will be now saying to university police, that they should be enforcing parking regulations.  Students should no longer be parking on the side of the road.  We have been working with the construction fund.  There is a new lot construction scheduled for the Fall of 2018; the money has been set aside, 2.8 million.  We will watch our growth closely in case of more surges in enrollment.

			The SP has a great deal of meaning to the president.  It is rigorous.  The faculty is deeply involved.  Dr. Butts needs to know what the faculty thinks about our continued growth.  We must maintain our position as a liberal arts college.  Dr. Butts encourages faculty to teach at the highest level even when students are ill prepared.  Students will do the work.  They will study.  They will work hard.  We have a priority for them to complete their work within target timelines for graduation.  With office hours, student success center, advising, we have been able to help students to complete with distinction and honor their college career.

			In 1999 the graduation rate was in the 20% range, but currently our graduation rate is 47%.

			The student center is in campus center H-wing. Career planning, tutoring, academic advising, is there for students to easily access the wide range of services they need to succeed.  

			We continue to improve our STEM and applied learning offerings.

			Parking has made clear we are overpopulated in 11:20 and 1pm time slots.  Can we alleviate this by doing away with common hour?   Many from the audience voice a yes.  The room seems to agree there is a bottleneck in scheduling due to common hour.  Should we switch to 3-day week classes?  Many voices from the room say no.

			School of professional studies attracts students for Friday and Sat classes.  Can we learn from this?  Voices from the audience say yes.

			Can we learn by doing online classes?  Voices from audience say no.  Dr. Butts responds to the no’s encouraging faculty that we could use software to help with scheduling classes more efficiently.

			Dr. Butts knows the importance of common hour, but the needs of scheduling classes for students is weighing more heavily now.  Feedback from faculty is needed here.  Dr. Butts believes that with high quality teaching it is possible for online courses to succeed, although he is an old fashioned person and he understands the value of in-person courses.

			MInna Barrett comments that data shows underrepresented students don’t fare well in online courses.

			Jennie D’Ambroise comments that SUNY Center for Professional Development has online courses for proper online pedagogy.  She enjoyed taking the courses.

			Eli Ebrahimi comments that we need more support for hybrid and blackboard.  He also comments that many students, adjuncts and faculty are angry about parking.

			Andy comments that Ebrahimi is involved with the FRRC subcommittee on parking.  They are meeting next week.  Please volunteer if you want to be involved.

			Frank Sanacory comments that common hour lets us connect with students.  The math department has math talks during common hour which encourage students to connect with faculty.

			Laura Anker comments that our great strength is diversity and in-person classes is so crucial.  The audience applauds.

			

			V.	Introduction of New Faculty

			

			Provost O’Sullivan invites new faculty up front.  New faculty introduce themselves, their Ph.D. institution, their research, their departments etc..	

			

			VI.	Provost’s Report

			

			The Provost congratulates the library services for the highly positive responses from the student survey.  The second place for high quality is the quality of the major in the departments.  Congrats to faculty and department chairs.

			Anthony Barbera updates on SP and Middle States.  The SP process began in Fall 2016.  D. Quarless, K. Greenberg, and A. Barbera were co-chairs of the SP process.  The instruction provided to the co-chairs was that the SP process was to be broad and inclusive.  In April the 2nd draft of the SP was distributed by the SP task force.  The task force consists of faculty, staff, alumni, students, etc..  Each of the goals created a subcommittee consisting of many people such as alumni, staff, administration, faculty, and students, totaling up to 70 people. They refined the strategies; they solicited input from various departments and individuals who would implement the goals and strategies.  They created a document of over 100 pages.  The SP coordinating committee has been meeting weekly since the semester started in order to fill gaps and coordinate overlaps between the subcommittees.  We agreed that 100+ pages is too long for a SP.   The document was separated:  one piece is now a condensed plan, and a second document is the implementation plan.  The SP documents are intended to be living documents.  Strategies and objectives will need to be revised. A conscious effort was made to make the plan aspirational and not restrictive.  Next week the next version will be distributed to the campus and the alumni association.  Both the SP document and the implementation document will be distributed.  There will be a time to submit comments – please submit to the co-chairs A. Barbera, A. Mattson, and D. Quarless.  A. Barbera asks all those who contributed in any way to raise their hand in order to demonstrate the extent of faculty input.

			Student complaint procedure is enforced by Middle States.  That procedure needs to provide students with opportunities to lodge complaints.  We report to Middle States the complaints and how they have been resolved.  One objective is to give students an avenue for complaints, and another is to find trends in complaints overall in order for the college to improve.  This is a type of assessment in order to allow us to be involved in continuous improvement.  Even if a department has no complaints they need to submit saying no complaints.  Each department lodges their own complaint.  If student complains about the bus, contact the bus department.  Directors of administration and academic departments in every division have a complaint procedure in place.  Student orientation will include instructions about how to complain.  Remember these are formal complaints.  There is a different mechanism for anonymous complaints.

			D. Quarless reports that there is 4 million for supporting open educational resources (OER).  Already a sociology course, a math course, and a media course have been tagged as using OER.  There was a webinar yesterday.  On our campus we will provide support to any faculty interested.

			D. Quarless reports on Scantron.  You should have received a memo from the Provost saying that we are going fully online for student perception of teaching forms.  We received a no-cost expansion so that we do not hit the max allowed number of surveys.

			D. Quarless reports on Applied Learning.  Online learning can include a field study, a practicum, or off-site work. The campus AL team has come to the end of its activity because the formulation of the group was set to dissolve after completing the 7-part report.  This was completed last semester.

			Lumina foundation grant (see handout).

			M. Torrell comments that student evaluations are very important.  They are used by departments and ARPT in reviews.  Due to possible bugs Torrell strongly urges that we continue to use both methods.  Last time our % reply was very low, single digits.  Quarless reports average response rate is 30% from Scantron.  P. Ikeler comments that the 30% response rate is too low, are there encouragements for students to complete it online?  Quarless reports web radio, work study, student center promotion.  Ashley Lien comments that the committee recommends a number of guidelines that were not previously followed – we need a culture of assessment.

			

			VII.	Old Business 

			

			Applied Learning Update (Minna Barrett)

			

			FYI for new people, we are talking about SUNY-approved AL courses.  If you want info about AL approval contact the AL team.

				   

			VIII.	New Business

			

			HR Report (Rebecca West, Nicole Karyotakis)

			

			SUNY OW is implementing SUNY HR time and attendance system online.  The system has been developed for 2 years by the SUNY administration.  Benefits are that it’s paperlesss, supports our green initiative, and it is more up-to-date.  You will access it through cell phone, any wifi, you can check leave accrual balances.  You will receive an email notification when time sheets has been approved or denied.  You will submit January time sheets through this new online system.  There will be training. This has been implemented over 5 years, and similar to other SUNY campuses. Our campus has adopted it.

				

			Advisory Committee on Campus Safety Update (Wayne Edwards, Steve Sienna)	   

			

			W. Edwards reports this committee’s charge (per SUNY policy mandate): the committee will consist of females, males, student, faculty, administrators, etc..  The responsibilities include reviewing campus security policies, improvements review, educating campus community on sexual assault, personal safety, crime prevention, dealing with victims during investigations, and counseling victims.  Each year the committee forwards a report to the president.  They focus more on sex assault and crime prevention, but they have also addressed lighting on walkways, pavement conditions, etc..  

			S. Sienna reports police are more reactive, responding to calls.  The committee allows us to be more proactive.

			Please contact W. Edwards if you want to be involved with the committee.  Appointees serve 1 year (we want to make it 2 for continuity).  The time commitment is not a heavy lift.  A staggered 2-year term is best, so that half of group is from last year and half is new.

			S. Sienna reports that the annual security report is available online.

			Faculty asks whether there are any changes to how campuses deal with sexual assaults after the recent new administration.  Sienna responds that we have a sworn department, so we have continuity on campus, there have not been recent changes. There is a title 9 reporting requirement.

			Faculty asks whether the committee members need to be elected.  Andy states that the chair has submitted a list of names to the President (2x as many as will serve).  The President has discretion to choose among the names submitted.  We will speak with the President about the process. We will ask the President to not appoint 8 people, making the whole committee 24.  We may ask him to appoint less in order for the committee to be smaller. It is not elected.

			E. Ebrahimi comments that a faculty member who missed bus, after 1 hour contacted the police and they gave ride to the faculty member.  There is no walkway.  How are you going to solve this issue?   Sienna responds that he is on another group that Dr. Butts put together looking at a number of solutions.  We have enough spaces to accommodate all parking including the extra lot.

			

			IX.	Announcements

			L. Anker will ask B. Gillis to send out email soliciting donations for DACA students who are having a trouble staying here.  We had a DACA student who was mistakenly given the Excelsior grant, so she is dropping out of school. She has scholarship from United Way for $2,000, but she needs $4,000 for this semester and $4,000 for next semester.  We raised money last semester and we gave it all out.  We don’t want to lose the kids.  All checks donated go into the College Foundation. For the Access and Equity Scholarship Dr. Butts has agreed to match what faculty gives. Faculty comments that we should be able to share on social media and we need a gofundme page. Go to the OW website --> ways to give --> College Foundation.  You can give to the college foundation at any time, any fund including other funds, at any time.

			

			X.	Adjournment			

4