Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)
Annual Report
2014-2015

Drafted by Ryoko Yamamoto
Reviewed by Samara Smith, Ashlee Lien

I.
Membership
The 2014-2015 TLRC consisted of six elected or appointed members and two ex-officio
members. On the first meeting in September 2015, Ryoko Yamamoto was elected as a chair and
Samara Smith and Alirezza Ebrahimi were elected as co-chairs. Alireza Ebrahimi was on
sabbatical in Spring 2015 and Lillian Park was appointed to serve for a semester in his place.
[Elected & Appointed Members]
Alireza Ebrahimi (Co-chair, on Sabbatical in Spring 2015), Amy Hsu, Ashlee Lien, Fernando
Nieto, Lillian Park (one semester interim appointment for Spring 2015), Samara Smith (Cochair), Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)
[Ex-officio members]
Ed Bever (Distant Learning), Stephen Kirkpatrick (Library)

II.

Activities

During the 2014-2015 academic year, the TLRC hosted a new faculty orientation, five faculty
roundtables/workshop, and annual faculty conference. Prior to the conference, the committee
organized the Disparity Project in order to promote the conference’s theme “Disparity.” In
addition, the TLRC co-sponsored a “To Tenure and Beyond” workshop.
The TLRC held the total of seven business meetings, along with frequent online discussions and
collaborations, in order to organize these events. In effort to better reflect the needs of the
community, the committee solicited feedback from event participants and the broader OW
community through multiple surveys.
A.

TLRC Sponsored Public Events
1. New Faculty Orientation
TLRC organized the New Faculty Orientation for incoming faculty members on
Oct 13, 2014. The orientation consisted of brief presentations on ARPT, faculty
governance, assessment, distant learning and IT and an information table session
by over a dozen organizations and programs on campus. See Appendix A for the
program and the results of the participant survey.

TLRC Annual Report 2014-2015

1

2. Faculty Roundtable & Workshop Series
During the 2014-2015 academic year, TLRC offered four roundtable sessions and
workshops under the theme of “A Culture of Learning”. The theme and session
topics were decided based on the feedback received through the end-of-the-year
survey in Spring 2014.
Fifty six percent (or 19) of the end-of-year survey respondents (N=34) indicated
that they attended at least one roundtable/workshop in this academic year. Their
qualitative feedback indicate that participants found that roundtables cover topics
relevant to their teaching (“The experience was informative and helpful for
classroom implementation”, “The roundtables help me to better organize my
classes) and that having a forum to share experience with colleagues was useful
(“I really enjoyed them....to be honest, it was less for the specific content, per se.
but more because it gave me a way to hear about what my colleagues were
thinking and doing.” One respondent suggested a stronger moderation may be
desirable. Another suggested a more regular discussion on college mission and
classroom discipline may be useful.
Date
#1 10/23/2014

#2 11/19/2014
#3 2/23/2015

#4 3/12/2015

#5 4/2/2015

Topic & Presenters
Roundtable - Engaging Students Beyond Their Comfort Zone
(Presenters: Dr. Amanda Frisken, American Studies
Dr. Frank Sanacory, Mathematics and CIS)
Workshop - Creating Blackboard Rubrics
(Presenter: Mr. Raul Zevallos, School of Education)
Roundtable - Setting the Tone: Building Positive Classroom
Culture
(Presenter: Dr. Thomas DelGiudice, PEL and Dr. Martha
Livingston, Public Health)
Blackboard Roundtable - Engaging Students Online
(Presenters: Dr. M. Carolina Bustamante, Spanish Education,
Dr. Jillian Crocker, Sociology, and Dr. Elena Smirnova,
Management, Marketing and Finance)
Roundtable -- Negotiating the Impact of Professor
Characteristics on Credibility and Authority in the Classroom
(Presenters: Dr. Rita Colon-Urban, Biological Sciences and
Dr. Myeshia Price, Psychology)

3. The Disparity Project
During March and April 2015, TLRC carried out the Disparity Project in
collaboration with the Collaborative Media Center (CMC). Disparity was the
theme of the 2015 Faculty Conference, which was held in April. In the Disparity
Project, TLRC solicited self-portraits holding a sign with a statement concerning
disparity from members of SUNY Old Westbury, and posted them on the project
website (https://disparityproject.wordpress.com ). The total of forty five students,
faculty, staff participated in the Disparity Project.

TLRC Annual Report 2014-2015

2

4. Annual Faculty Conference
TLRC hosted 11th Annual Faculty Conference on April 17, 2015. This year’s
theme “Disparity” was selected to address College’s mission of Social Justice.
The Conference featured fourteen presentations across disciplines, as well as a
keynote speech by New York Times columnist Eduardo Porter. The keynote
speech was well attended by faculty, staff and students.
According to the participant survey (N=13), participants found the conference
offered high quality presentations and keynote speech with good time
management. Seventy seven percent of participants rated “Presentation quality”
and “Keynote speech quality” as “Excellent”, while other 23% rated them
“Good”. Meanwhile 92% rated time keeping during the conference “Excellent,”
while 8% rated good. Overall, 69% of respondents found the conference
“Excellent,” and 31% thought “Good.”
See Appendix B for the program, promotional materials and participant survey
results of the Annual Faculty Conference.
B.

Co-Sponsored Public Event
With UUP and ARPT, TLRC co-sponsored “To Tenure and Beyond” Workshop on
October 10, 2014.

C.

Committee Meetings
TLRC held seven business meetings throughout the academic year of 2014-2015
(9/3/2014, 10/7/2014, 11/3/2014, 2/5/2015, 3/11/2015. 4/14/2015, 5/12/2015).

D.

Other Activities
1. TLRC Performance Assessment Surveys
TLRC conducted multiple surveys to solicit feedback from event participants and
members of SUNY Old Westbury community.
i.
New Faculty Orientation Survey
ii.
Fall 2014 Roundtable Surveys
iii. Annual Conference Participant Survey (Appendix B-3)
iv.
End-of-year Survey (Appendix C)
2. TLRC website
TLRC maintained a committee website to share information about TLRC events and
other campus resources (www.tlcsunyow.webs.com).
3. Participation in SUNY Faculty Development Community of Practice Annual
The TLRC Chair participated in SUNY Faculty Development Community Practice
Annual Meeting at SUNY New Paltz on October 24, 2014.

TLRC Annual Report 2014-2015

3

III.

Reflections and Future Plans

Based on feedback we received through surveys, participants generally seem to find TLRC
events useful for their pedagogical development and for the development of learning community
on campus. However, the level of attendance to some events was modest, including the annual
faculty conference. Low attendance has been an ongoing challenge for the TLRC since previous
years. For the 2015 Annual Conference, we invited a prominent New York Times columnist as a
keynote speaker and promoted the Conference heavily. While the keynote speech was very well
attended and perceived, the attendance in other sections of the conference remained limited. We
understand some people were unable to attend due to the schedule conflict with an internal
meeting or academic conference. According to the end-of-year survey, 13 out of 20 who did not
attend the conference identified “I was too busy/schedule conflict” as a reason (two specifically
noted the conflict with a major academic conference in their field). The schedule conflict has
been an issue in previous years. Nevertheless, it is nearly impossible to schedule a conference on
a day that is convenient for everyone.
After repeated discussions over the conference attendance problem, the TLRC decided to try a
new form in 2015-2016. Instead of having one-day conference, the TLRC will organize a
presentation series throughout an academic year, and share recorded presentations online. This
way, we can share presentations with a broader audience, regardless of schedule. Furthermore,
we will be able to build a library of collective knowledge. This presentation series, entitled Old
Westbury Learning Society (OWLS) will start the fall of 2015. TLRC will take a break from an
annual conference in 2015-2016, while we continue to discuss how to reach a broader audience
more effectively.
The TLRC also agreed that it would continue (semi)-monthly roundtables/workshops. The endof-year survey indicates continuing interests in topics such as instructional technology, student
engagement and cultivating academic culture.

Appendix A. New Faculty Orientation Program
Appendix B. Annual Faculty Conference
1) Annual Faculty Conference Program
2) Media kit
3) Annual Participant Survey Results
Appendix C. End-of-year Survey Results

TLRC Annual Report 2014-2015

4

Appendix A

Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)
New Faculty Orientation
Friday, October 3rd, 2014
1100 New Academic Building
10:00AM – 12:15PM

Program
10:00 – 10:10 AM
10:10-10:20 AM

Welcome

New Faculty Introduction

10:20-11:10 AM

Presentations

Reappointment and Tenure: Dr. Chris Hobson
Distance Learning: Dr. Edward Bever
Instructional Technology: Mr. Alex Sartakov and Mr. Jay Zaffuto
Assessment and Learning Outcomes: Dr. Hedva Lewittes
United University Professions: Dr. Martha Livingston
Faculty Governance: Dr. Kate Velsor

11:10-11:30 AM

Informational Tables Chat-Around

Academic Advising, Distance Learning, Instructional Technology, Library, Center for Student
Leadership & Involvement, Old Westbury Garden, United University Professions (UUP),
Women’s Center, Writing Across the Curriculum(WAC), Writing Center

11:30 AM-12:15PM

Lunch

Fall 2014 New Faculty Members
Maria Carolina Bustamante
Danielle Lee
Lisa Chin
Fatemeh Shaadi Mehr
Laura Chipley
Shilipi Paul
Jillian Crocker
Eric Schwartz
Bright Emenike
Amanda Shigihara
Rajendra Gharbaran
Nicole Sieben
Keisha Goode
Blidi Stemn
Angel Lara
2014-2015 Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)
Ali Ebrahimi (co-chair), Amy Hsu, Ashlee Lien, Fernando Nieto, Samara Smith (co-chair),
Ryoko Yamamoto (chair), Ed Bever (ex. officio), Stephen Kirkpatrick (ex. officio)

Appendix B-1

Locating Disparities (P)
10:00-10:50am, NAB1100

2015 11th TLRC Annual Faculty Conference
Program
9:00am Doors Open, Coffee and Refreshment (NAB1100)
Welcome
New Faculty Research Showcase
9:15-9:55am, NAB1100
Disparity in Immigrant Communities (R)
10:00-10:50am, NAB1105

Barrett, Minna “Engaging Disparity”
Casavis, David “Disparity from the Start”

Limonic, Laura “How Life in the Heights Compares with
Life en la Isla: Disparities across Dominicans in New
York and the Dominican Republic”
Mukherji, Runi “Asian Americans and Health
Information Sourcing: Different Strokes for Different
Folks”

Filling a Gap: Trends and Recommendations for
Improving Student Retention (R)
11:00-12noon, NAB1100
Lien, Ashlee “Identifying Risk and Resilience Among
First-Generation College Students: A Qualitative
Approach”

New Approach to Technology and Disparity (P)
11:00-12noon, NAB1105
Ebrahimi, Alireza “Programming Education Disparity: A
Way to Resolve”
Zevallos, Raul “Online/Face-to-Face Course Disparity”

Heller, Jacob “Factors Influencing Retention and
Persistence among First-Year Students”
Nwigwe, Maxine “Organizational Practices that Encourage
Student Engagement: A Look at SUNY Old Westbury's
First Year Experience Program”
Lunch
12noon – 12:50, NAB1100
Keynote Speech
“Education v. Inequality”
Eduardo Porter, The New York Times
1-2pm, Campus Center Recital Hall
Addressing Disparity in the Classroom (P)
Health and Disparity (R)
2:10-3:10pm, NAB1100
2:10-3:10pm, NAB1105
Bever, Ed “Addressing Disparities in Online Accessibility”
Smith, Samara and Laura Chipley “Narrowing the Digital
Divide and Participation Gap at Old Westbury”

Afolabi, Abolasade (Walden University), Roger Mayer,
Wen-Wen Chien, Fabian Baapogmah (Walden
University). “Preventive Prenatal Care in Central
Nigeria: Profit and Ethical Considerations”

Stemn, Blidi “Addressing Disparities in Mathematics
Performance of Elementary School Students in a High
Needs School”

Li, Shijian “A Community-based Approach to Address
Hepatitis B Disparities among Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders”

Closing & Reflections
3:15-3:30pm, NAB1100 & NAB1105
Note: (P) – Pedagogy session, (R) – Research session

Appendix B-2
2015 11th TLRC Annual Faculty Conference (April 17, 2015)
&
The Disparity Project
(Updated March 25)
[Main Event]
The Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC) hosts 11th Annual Faculty Conference.
This year’s theme is “Disparity,” and Old Westbury faculty members present their research and
pedagogical practices on this theme in five distinctive panels. In addition to panel sessions, new faculty
members at Old Westbury will share their research projects in New Faculty Research Showcase. The
event is open to public.
This year’s theme “Disparity” is deeply related to the College’s social justice mission. Disparity appears
in different forms, from economic, educational, technological to health and linguistic and in different
communities across the world, as well as across racial, ethnic, gender, and age groups. This multidisciplinary conference addresses the deepening issue of disparities from various perspectives.
The TLRC welcomes New York Times Economic Scene columnist Eduardo Porter as the keynote
speaker (sponsored by the Academic Affairs) at the conference. Mr. Porter writes extensively on issues
of economic disparities. Some of his recent columns address issues of inequalities and higher education
(“The Promise and Failure of Community Colleges,” Feb 18, 2015 / “A Simple Equation: More
Education = More Income” Sept 10, 2014). Before he joined the New York Times in 2004, Mr. Porter
worked as an economic journalist in Mexico, England, Japan, and Brazil. More information about Mr.
Porter and a list of his NYT articles are available at:
http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/p/eduardo_porter/index.html
[Time and Location]
The conference is scheduled to take place on Friday, April 17, 2015, from 9:00am – 3:30pm (subject
to minor adjustments). The main location is NAB1100, with some sessions will be conducted in
NAB1105. The keynote speech will take place from 1-2pm at the Campus Center Recital Hall.
[Pre-Conference Event: The Disparity Project]
In order to raise an awareness of this theme, the TLRC, in collaboration with the Collaborative Media
Center, launched the Disparity Project as a pre-conference event. In this project, we ask students, faculty
members and staff to complete a sentence concerning disparity (“Disparity is…” “Disparity matters
because…” “Equality matters because…” “Everyone deserves…” “… for everyone”), and photograph
themselves with the sentence. This project aims to provide members of the College with a space to
express and share their thoughts about various forms of disparity, and by doing so, voice as a
community and renew our commitment to social justice. Photographs are displayed around the campus
as well as online (https://disparityproject.wordpress.com/).
[Contact]
Teaching and Learning Resources Committee (TLRC)
Chair: Ryoko Yamamoto (yamamotor@oldwestbury.edu)
TLRC Members: Alireza Ebrahimi (on leave), Amy Hsu, Ashlee Lien, Fernando Nieto, Samara Smith,
Lillian Park, Edward Bever (ex. officio), Stephen Kirkpatrick (ex. officio)

Appendix B-3
Spring 2015 TLRC Faculty Annual Conference Survey
April 17, 2015
Evaluation of Conference Experience (N=13)
Overall

69%

31%

Presentation Quality

77%

23%

Keynote Speech Quality

77%

23%

Time Keeping

92%

Food Service

69%

0%

20%

40%

Excellent
Time for Presentation
(n=12)
Too Short
Adequate

8%

25%
75%

Preferred Pedagogy-Research Mix
(n=13)
Prefer More Research 8%
Prefer More Pedagogy 8%
Like the Current Ratio 85%

Feel for Concurrent Session (n=12)
Prefer Single Session 27%
Fine with Concurrent Session 73%

31%

60%

80%

100%

120%

Good
Participation Capacity
(n=13)
Presenter
Audience

Participation Status (n=13)
Tenured Faculty
Tenure-track Untenured
Faculty
Non-tenure-track Faculty
Non-Faculty

62%
38%

46%
31%
8%
15%

Suggested Theme / Speaker for a Future Conference
Environmental justice
Worker rights / Workforce justice
Neil deGrasse Tyson
Steve Greenhouse
Charles Kennigan
Faculty engagement - the fall of the faculty & the rise of the all administrative
campus
Inspiring faculty & student
Navigating social and cultural barriers
Intersectionality
Race relations on campus & rels btwn other diverse groups
Great theme this year!
Incorporating environmental awareness & engagement in a multi-disciplinary ??
Where should be OW in 10 years from now
Very good conference. I wish to see more faculty
Interdisciplinarity

Comments / Suggestions
Very well organized. Extremely well done. How do we get more of us to participate in this
wonderful opportunity to hear what colleagues are doing? Speaker Eduardo Porter was
amongst the best speakers we have ever invited for any reason. He was so coherent and
relevant to our current understanding of trends in education & economy!
Keynote speech was absolutely awesome! I really liked having about the "like a man"
More speakers / Could add 1 more session
Maybe we can ask speakers to call on students first. Well done! It was great to have such a
high level speaker.
Low turn out. How can this be addressed?
I like a) Having a theme, b) having keynote speaker, c) Space of NAB1100 better than MPR
Students presence during the keynote speaker was excellent and encouraging
Single session would be great when number is low - 4 per session
Great job. Very well organized. Professionally done!
I don't know how to do it but find some way to increase student participation. It is a really
good form of "modeling" for our students especially those who want to go on for post
secondary and higher ed as professionals

Appendix C
TLRC End-of-Year Survey (Online)
2014-2015 Academic Year
Total Number of Respondents

N = 33

Respondent Demographics
Q1. Which school do you belong to?
70%

65%

60%
50%
40%
30%
20%

15%

12%

3%

6%

Library

Other

10%
0%

SAS

SOB

SOE

Q2. Are you a ...
45%
40%

41%

38%

35%
30%
25%

18%

20%
15%
10%
5%

3%

0%

Adjunct faculty Non-tenure Tenure track Tenured faculty
track FT faculty
faculty

Q3. Your gender
No answer, 6%

Male, 35%

Female, 59%

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 1

Roundtables & Workshop
Q4. Have you attended any of TLRC Roundtables this academic year?

No, 44%
Yes, 56%

Q5. (If you have attended at least one TLRC Roundtable) How was your experience? Is there any
way we could improve our roundtables? (It would be helpful if you could specify which roundtable
session(s) you participated, if you remember.)
Blackboard Roundtable: Engaging the Students Online. It is always a challenge to engage students online, and
so nice to have faculty at the roundtable to showcase their ways of engaging students in online or hybrid course.
Excellent choice of topics, and great turnout of faculty.
I attended a couple of the Roundtables, I wish I could remember the names of them off hand. But one was
about supporting writing and the other was classroom management strategies. I really enjoyed them....to be
honest, it was less for the specific content, per se. but more because it gave me a way to hear about what my
colleagues were thinking and doing. It is one of the few discipline- based forums we have to interact with one
another.
On Point....
You folks are doing a great job. However, I think a more regular discussion about the college mission and how
to incorporate it and classroom discipline might be a good idea for full-time faculty and adjuncts if any can find
the time as contingent faculty.
I attended two presented by Amara Graf, and one by Myesha Price. One of the best things about them was that
staff attended, perhaps because of the gender theme. Our department secretary was excited about attending-she went to many more than I was able to-- and I enjoyed hearing her perspectives.
Sharing Online experience/Engaging students in online environment
I can't recall what the title of the roundtable was (I attended only one - I had conflicts for nearly all the others),
but there were some faculty who dominated the discussion, and yet who had little new to contribute. So, I'd like
to see a stronger moderator presence, to encourage a diversity of voices in the Q & A; or, alternatively, a TLRC
Roundtable about how not to talk so much... ;)
It was great, I did a presentation on engaging students in online course.
-Setting the Tone: Building Positive Classroom Culture, -Negotiating the Impact of Professor Characteristics
on Credibility and Authority in the Classroom, The experience was informative and helpful for classroom
implementation.
I went to a few of the common hour events. (The Library presentation with Stephen Kirkpatrick, and one with Ed
Bever (might have been part of the library presentation). I also went to a few others that I thought were cosponsored such as Amara Graf's talk. I love to go to them as long as I can afford the time. I think common hour
is best.
Very good. I cannot think of any way to improve off hand.
I have attended one TLRC Roundtable this past spring and it was an excellent experience. I'm glad I followed
my colleague's advice to attend.
I attended the roundtables on ARPT and UUP policies. Both were informative.
The roundtables help me to better organize my classes.

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 2

Q6. (If you did not participate in any TLRC Roundtable this year) What, would you say, is the
main reason(s) why you did not join our roundtable? Please mark all that apply.
(N=5)
I was too busy / Schedule conflict (2)
I did not know about TLRC roundtables (2)
Other (1 - “Campus is too far for me to travel except for the evening of my class”)

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 3

Annual Conference
Q7. Did you attend TLRC Annual Faculty Conference on April 17?
No
answer,
3%
Yes, 38%
No, 59%

Q8. (If you attended the conference) Which parts of the conference did you attend? Please
mark all that apply.
(N=14)
14

13
11

12

10
10
8

5

6
4
2
0

Keynote

Panel

Lunch

Introduction

Q9. (If you did not participate in the conference) What, would you say, is the main reason(s)
why you did not participate? Please mark all that apply.
(N=20)
I was too busy / Schedule conflict (13)
I was not interested in the theme/topics of presentation (1)
I was not sure what the conference was about (1)
I was not aware of the conference (3)
Other (1- “Campus is too far for me to travel except for the evening of my class”)

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 4

Pedagogical Challenges and Future Directions
Q10. In your opinion, what are major pedagogical challenges at SUNY Old Westbury?
Students feel entitled to get A's without submitting excellent work.
They are two-fold, I think. One level of challenge is the "native" level of intellectual curiosity among students,
generally (not to paint with too-broad a brush, since there's considerable variability among students), which
may be a result of recruitment/enrollment policies. The second, which is related, is the failure by the College
(again, writ large - I don't want to overgeneralize) to take the students that recruitment and enrollment services
bring in, and to socialize and acculturate more of those students into a set of behaviors and outlooks that are
appropriate to a college - intellectual curiosity, investment in the higher education project itself (not the
credential), a work ethic around learning and studying, etc.
remedial writing across disciplines; students' expectations of grade inflation
Students feel entitled. This semester saw a huge increase in the number of students who didn't feel the need to
complete their assignments or participate in class.
Motivating Students. Many students do not engage actively in learning activities.
Finding ways to inspire/motivate students. Encouraging students' reading, analysis. Discouraging academic
dishonesty
Lack of cohesive bonds and sense of academic purpose leaves faculty isolated and thus vulnerable to pressure
from students to lower standards because "It's just Old Westbury."
Commitment to the mission
Too many contingent faculty
Allowing people with masters level degrees to teach in disciplines requiring a Ph.D.
Helping students with multiple obligations succeed
Providing the tools for actualizing the concepts of leadership and engagement above the First year courses
Increasing the number of diverse faculty
More online courses??
The major challenge I had with the students was not the poor background but the lack responsibility. They
seem not to understand what a college course is about and the amount of time and dedication one have to
spend in order to succeed/pass a course. In my experience, many of them had an attitude of entitlement, that
just by showing up to the class they would pass it.
Student diversity. Too often this becomes a discussion about race/ethnicity, but, in my opinion, at Old
Westbury, the correlation of preparation and motivation with race and is actually lower than at most comparable
institutions. Further, I believe that the kind of racial/ethnic diversity we have at Old Westbury is not as singular
as it once was....but we still keep harping on this, at risk of neglecting other issues, such as the changes in
learning behaviors associated with the changes in digital and other forms of media technology.
Quantitative Reasoning (QR) across the curriculum.
There is WAC but nothing really no concerted
instructional supports for integrating QR.
Varied student population makes it difficult to aim classes so that lower level students can follow but higher
level students don't get bored.
1. Students are under-prepared for some courses, esp. quantitative courses;
2. Students need more writing training, esp. academic writing.

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 5

Q11. What kind of workshops and events would you like TLRC to sponsor in order to enhance your
teaching and learning experience?
Anything related to active learning
Developing meaningful assignments with meaningful assessments of student learning
ARPT Process
Availability of Assistive Technology at OW
I enjoyed the "shared experience" feeling. That is, I enjoyed knowing that I was not alone in some of my
experiences and struggles.
1) Maximum utilization of labs and learning technologies in the classroom and as assignments to be assessed in
the classroom;
2) Classroom decorum standards for students and faculty;
3) Effective early warning signals.
4) The importance of grammar and sentence structure throughout the disciplines.
Classroom teaching techniques
If I knew what had been covered perhaps I could offer a suggestion.
A history of the expansion of higher education to a nearly universal experience. We need to understand that
meeting the students where they are is warranted at an institution like ours, but we can still take them to the
same finish line.
Technology, Assessment
Not sure. I'm better at critiquing, than creating? Maybe something about the importance of modeling and
encouraging (and enforcing) college-like attitudes among students (and, ahem, faculty). The effects on students
of "taking attendance" in class; the ways in which students can be helped to take ownership of their courses,
course selection, etc. That type of thing.
How to motivate the disinterested.
Motivating Students
Strategies for building skills in critical thinking, reading and writing
Using Blackboard
It would be refreshing to learn something new that many of us could relate to: history of Long Island; aesthetic
design; mathematical theories; new treatments for prostate cancer, etc.
I would really like more workshops to learn about innovations in course design based on new Instructional
Technologies. I would like more "training' workshops in using different media...like Pinterest, wikis, etc. for
pedagogy
I'm interested in the campus faculty's "best practices" for integrating and assessing the impact of multi-media
technologies in instruction.
I probably wouldn't be go
How to teach writing

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 6

Q12. Please share your ideas for possible topics of the next year's Common Hour Roundtable
sessions.
To address challenges mentioned:
(1) Role of the for-profit sector
(2) Relevance to career competency while developing well-rounded citizens
(3) Globalization of higher education, student body, approach to issues
Managing different academic needs in the classroom.
ARPT Process, Availability of Assistive Technology at OW
1) Maximum utilization of labs and learning technologies in the classroom and as assignments to be
assessed in the classroom;
2) Classroom decorum standards for students and faculty;
3) Effective early warning signals.
4) The importance of grammar and sentence structure throughout the disciplines.
Use of iPads by students and instructors, Assessment
How about an investigation of how to teach at Old Westbury without using any grades at all. What would
faculty "do" without grades, and what would students make of their classes if they didn't get graded, labelled,
stratified and judged in that mindless A/B/C/D/F way?
Assessment of Learning Outcomes
Bring in one or two outside speakers to talk about best practices
1. Incorporating environmental awareness into the curriculum
2. Presentations by Natural Science and Mathematics colleagues!
3. From Dichotomy to Spectrum? Multifaceted Gender Identities, language and what to do about it.
4. Legacy of Existentialism: Did Philosophy of the 1960s mean anything?
5. Screen the four-part documentary, "Century of the Self," and have people talk about it..
Interdisciplinary education
the role of general education in a liberal arts college
including arts and sciences in technical/professional education
classroom discipline
Economics and Politics in the Caribbean nations and other third world Polities
I would add a session in the students orientation about the transition between high school and college, so the
students start getting into the college "mood" (how much time they have to spend studying, for example).
Instructional Design using new forms of instructional technologies.
Discussions about how to incorporate new technologies into the curriculum.
Host a roundtable discussion to explore and organize some faculty working groups around shared
professional campus-based interests (e.g. professional development for grant-writing), and plan some grantwriting workshops including external speakers.
1. Academic Writing
2. How to deal with under-prepared students

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 7

Comments/Suggestions
Thank you for asking
Thank you for all of your useful programming this year.
Thanks for making these stimulating events possible.
Thank you for your hard work!
Really liked the Eduardo Porter talk - it raised the quality of the discourse of the TLRC conference.
Please be more inclusive in future surveys by offering more than two gender choices (at the very least, offer
"Other" or make the question a fill-in-the-blank), or (better still) eliminate the gender question completely.
TLRC committee did a great job. Compare to previous years there was a tremendous improvement.
The annual conference seems like a lot of work and I'm not sure what purpose it serves since faculty should be
encouraged to present new research at conferences and professional meetings rather than at an in-house
venue like this.
I'd prefer to replace the annual conference with 2 half-day workshops with master teachers from other
institutions to talk about teaching strategies, student needs and methods to improve retention of students
While I do identify with a dichotomized gender, I am having more and more trouble with the dichotomy. If we
are really inclusive, shouldn't we come up with possibilities besides male/ female? The other terms around are
equally clinical, if not more so: intersex, androgyne, etc. Recently I passed, or was passed by a transgender
group carrying what I presumed was their flag: bands of baby blue and pink, with white in between. I thought
that was nice. Could we come up with a range of colors that people could use to identify their/ our gender? If
I'm female/ trans-oriented, could I bullet Team Yellow, rather than the girl box?
On that subject, I would like to find a way to encourage the College President to say something like "people,"
rather than "men and women," as he almost invariably refers to people. I think he offers the two nouns to
sound more inclusive, but it is done so repeatedly, it's like a reminder of difference-- and exclusion, too. What
about the people who don't feel they are either one? There may even be some on this campus.
Now that I see I have so much to say about this, I will add a third idea to Q12.
Thank you for asking for our input and suggestions!
One of the aspects that could be discussed is to have a clear and detailed syllabus, and specify the rubrics for
the course, objectives, students' responsibilities, professors' responsibilities, and also the rules of the class
(being on time, for example, that was a big issue in mine), and state these rules very clear the first day of class.

TLRC End-of-Year Survey 2014-2015 - 8