Resolution for Proposal for
A Micro-Credential in Spanish Translation
WHEREAS, the Department of Modern Languages proposed a Micro-Credential in Spanish
Translation, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential is designed to help students develop basic skills for
translating professional documents from English into Spanish, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential would help students cultivate the skill sets that
expand career opportunities in a broad range of fields including education, business, health,
communication, and government, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential is stackable with a Spanish Language, Hispanic
Literature and Culture degree and could help students in this degree program to focus elective
choices, while providing an opportunity for other students to develop and demonstrate
marketable skills of Spanish translation, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Micro-Credential consists of three existing courses which are part of
an undergraduate degree and one new course, which could be added with no additional resource,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty Senate approve the proposed MicroCredential in Spanish Translation.

Submitted by Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (CAP), November 13, 2020
The Proposal approved by CAP on November 13, 2020
[CAP Membership]
Tejas Bouklas, Svetlana Jovic, Yu Lei, Matthew Lippert, Anissa Wicktor Lynch, Sheyi Oladipo,
Dana Sinclair, Kerry Weir, and Ryoko Yamamoto (Chair)
The Proposal approved by the Faculty Senate by unanimous consent on 12/4/2020.

Proposal for Micro-Credential in Spanish Translation
Department of Modern Languages
A. Purpose
The Micro-Credential in Spanish Translation is designed to help individuals develop
basic skills for translating documents of a professional nature from English into Spanish.
The program is germane to persons interested in careers such as educational services;
business services; health services; communications; local government; social services;
printing and publishing; chemicals and allied products; state government; and federal
Government. Employment in the occupation is expected to increase steadily as most of
these industries expand. The micro-credential program is open to current college students
and individuals seeking to add to their portfolio and make themselves more marketable to
nemployers.
The program consists of four sequential courses, four credits each, for a total of sixteen
credits.
B. Demand
According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment in the occupation is
expected to increase steadily as most of these industries expand. A growth rate is
expected to be faster than the average for all occupations.1 In addition to overall growth
in the industries employing interpreters and translators, higher demand is expected to
result from increased international ties and increased numbers of foreign language
speakers in the United States. Both of these trends are expected to continue, according to
data from the World Trade Organization and the U.S. Census Bureau.

C. Resources
Three of the four courses are already being offered as part of Spanish Language, Hispanic
Literature and Culture degree. We need to add an additional course, a Seminar in
Translation Techniques at the 4000 level, which could be offered every year as an
evening section. No additional resources will be needed to support this one additional
1 According to the “Occupational Outlook Handbook” of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
https://www.bls.gov/OOH/media-and-communication/interpreters-and-translators.htm#tab-6,
employment of interpreters and translators is projected to grow 19 percent from 2018 to 2028, much faster than the
average for all occupations. Employment growth reflects increasing globalization and a more diverse U.S. population,
which is expected to require more interpreters and translators. Demand will likely remain strong for translators of
frequently translated languages, such as French, German, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.
Also, see SLATOR, a website on Language Industry Intelligence, metrics and statistics. There are several articles
pertaining to the “Boom” in the US Language Industry: https://slator.com/industry-news/us-language-industry-boomsdoubles-headcount-within-7-years/

section. So to start, only one additional course will be needed to support this microcredential.
D. Cost, Financial Aid
Courses for this micro-credential will be offered at the regular tuition rate. The microcredential is stackable with the Spanish Language, Hispanic Literature and Culture
degree and those majors will be able to utilize financial aid. For students who are not
Spanish Language, Hispanic Literature and Culture majors, micro-credential courses will
be eligible for financial aid if they fall within the college elective component of the
student's degree program (as with a minor). These are regular four credit college
courses and earned credits may be transferred to other SUNY institutions.

E. Title
The name “Fundamentals of Spanish Translation” is not the title of any registered degree
or certificate program.
F. Assessment
The Micro-Credential will be assessed along with the other programs in the Department
of Modern Languages as part of its regular reviews.
G. Additional Materials
Catalog copy for the micro-credential:
The Micro-Credential in Spanish Translation is designed to help individuals develop
basic skills for translating documents of a professional nature from English into Spanish.
The program is germane to persons interested in careers such as educational services;
business services; health services; communications; local government; social services;
printing and publishing; chemicals and allied products; State government; and Federal
Government. Employment in the occupation is expected to increase steadily as most of
these industries expand. The micro-credential program is open to current college students
and individuals seeking to add to their portfolio and make themselves more marketable to
employers.
Requirements
The program consists of 4 courses (16 credits) each of which must be passed with a grade
of B or better, as follows:

2

Fall Year 1


ML2110 Intermediate Spanish II (prerequisite: ML 2100 or permission of ML
faculty)

Spring Year 1
 ML3362 Advanced Spanish Grammar and Composition (prerequisite: ML 2110
or permission of ML faculty)
Fall Year 2


ML3200 Translation Workshop (prerequisite: ML 3100 or permission of ML
faculty)

Spring Year 2


ML4XXX Seminar in Translation Techniques (prerequisite: ML 3200 or
permission of ML faculty).

Skills and Competencies to be Gained
Students will:
 Demonstrate their grasp of comparative grammar, style, rhetorical structures and levels
of discourse.
 Develop a clearer understanding of the morphological and syntactical differences
between English and Spanish.
 Be able to complete professional translations.
 Understand fundamental translation theories and methods.
 Use key source texts (dictionaries, books, websites) to develop translations.
 Learn the professional translation ethics, process, and work expectations.

June 2020

3