Section extracted from the 2016 Approved Faculty Bylaws
Section E: Faculty University Awards Committee (FUAC) (2016 Bylaws Pages 26)
1. Purpose:
The Committee shall, according to the guidelines in Appendix V, evaluate the campus for the
Shared Governance Award and nominees
candidates for the Distinguished Faculty Ranks Awards for Professorship, Teaching
Professorship, and Service Professorship, and Librarianship, as well as, the, Chancellor’s Awards
for “Excellence in” Teaching, Adjunct Teaching, Faculty Service, Librarianship, Professional
Service, and Scholarship and Creative
Activities Awards that are available at the College under the SUNY Board of
Trustees Policies and Procedures (subject to annual revisions); as modified, the Committee shall
also evaluate candidates for the Excellence in Librarianship and Excellence in Professional
Service Awards.
2. Membership:
The Committee shall consist of 10eight voting members, including: a Sstudent Government
Association
Representative, at least one a Distinguished Faculty Award recipient, at least three Service
Professor, a Distinguished Teaching
Professor, a Chancellor’s Award recipients, the Old Westbury Faculty Senate Chair (or
designee), one member designated annually by the President to act in a voting ex officio
capacity, a representative from the library, a representative from the College Professional staff,
and at least onethree faculty at the rank of Professor or Associate Professor with more than 10
years at the College, in compliance with university guidelines. In the event that there is a
nomination portfolio for Excellence in Librarianship and/or Excellence in Professional Service, t
The Committee membership shall be modified , as stated in the SUNY Guidelines., In the case
for Excellence in Professional Service the majority of the Committee is comprised of
Professional Staff to deliberate on the file
for selection of candidates for Excellence in Librarianship and Excellence in
Professional Service. To avoid any potential or perceived conflicts of interest, it is recommended
that no more than two members from the same department should serve on the committee at the
same time.
3. Terms:
a) SevenFive Faculty representatives shall be elected annually by the Faculty from a slate
prepared by the Nominations and Elections Committee and serve a staggered
term of two- years so that at least three or four members will be replaced every year. In
the initial implementation of this provision, the fourthree- faculty receiving the
greatest number of votes shall be designated for two- year terms, and the threetwo
faculty with the next greatest number for one- year terms.
b) The Sstudent Government Association representative shall be selected by the student
government body, and t
hey/she shall be approved by the Ccommittee membership according to the
specifications in Appendix V.

Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.31", First line: 0"

c) A Co-Chair shall be elected to share the responsibilities of the Committee and
to Chair the meetings in the event of the other Co-Chair’s recusal.
d) Each semester the Committee will notify the College through the Faculty Senate of the
upcoming awards deadlines and the membership of the committee
. If Committee membership vacancies need to be filled during an
academic year following formal annual elections, the Committee will solicit new
nominees to fill such vacancies through the Faculty Senate.

Commented [LW1]: Isn't this the standard procedure?

APPENDIX V: PROCEDURES FOR FACULTY UNIVERSITY AWARDS COMMITTEE
(2016 Bylaws Pages 54-58)
The following procedural details are recommended, however additional elements of the
procedures will be modified to ensure consistency with the SUNY-wide Policies and Procedures
as needed .
The nomination and evaluation process shall begin in June and January of each
academic year in which a call for nominations from the Committee
Co-Chairs (i.e. prior to, but in anticipation of, the formal invitation
2. A detailed checklist of items required by the Committee to be included in
nominees' portfolios shall be sent to each nominee and nominator. Nominators and
nominees should reach out to the Co-Chair(s) of the Committee as soon as possible
after the call for nominations to inform them that they plan to submit a portfolio. The
process is confidential, and Faculty, Staff, and Administrators should not discuss
publicly or privately who or how many nominees will be submitting portfolios.
The nominator and nominee will then be provided with the FUAC Award Guidelines to help
them prepare and organize the nominee’s file. Please note that the FUAC Award Guidelines are
subject to modification every two years to remain consistent with any changes made at the
SUNY-wide policy and procedural levels.
Applicant File
1. Updated Vita including campus and university service.

Commented [LW2]: I think additional headings would
enhance the organization of the guidelines.

2. Representative Teaching Materials: Syllabi from the last three years,
representative exams or projects, representative supplementary materials,
printouts, and special projects.
3. Student evaluations from at least the last three years.
4. Grading records for at least the last three years.
5. Peer review of student evaluations and/or teaching.

Commented [LW3]: How many?

6. Peer letters on curriculum development, team teaching, collaboration
etc., if available.
7. Letters of support from former students (alumni).
8. External letters of support are encouraged, but only insofar as they relate
to the criteria.
9. Nominator's Evaluation of the candidate, prepared with the participation
of the candidate. This must address the following:
a. Teaching techniques and innovations
b. Instructional policy/grading and motivating students. How are
seriousness and high
expectations encouraged?
c. A record of inspiring and motivating students. (Indicate the
achievements of graduates.)
d. Special projects and involvements with students or groups; accessibility
to students.
e. How scholarship relates to teaching.
Distinguished Service Professor Applicant File
The following items are to be included in the detailed checklist and are required
for all nominees for DSP:

1. Updated Vita Statement as described in SUNY guidelines
2. Nominator's Evaluation of the candidate, prepared in
collaboration with
the candidate. This must address the following:
(a) Candidate's service to the campus
(b) Candidate's service to the University
(c) Candidate's service to the community
(d) Candidate's service to the State of New York
(e) Candidate's service to the nation
(f) List of the candidate's most outstanding qualifications
(g) List of the candidate's major achievements
Committee Statement

Draft summary statements on all nominees will be prepared by at least two
members of the Committee. Assignments to prepare these draft statements shall be made
at random. These drafts will be read to the full Committee for discussion and
modification prior to a later meeting where a vote will be held. This procedure helps to
focus on the strengths and weaknesses of each candidate and ensures better documentation
of the Committee's deliberations. The draft summary statement of the candidate
who prevails in the vote then becomes the basis for the final summary statement which is
required by the SUNY guidelines. Statements on candidates not selected can be made
available to them for use in preparing for a re-nomination in a subsequent year.
Files must be completed before the deliberations start and, subsequent to the
initiation of the process, no material can be added.
Conflict of Interest and Confidentiality
Members of
FUAC will not participate in the consideration of any nomination from their
program/department
Members of FUAC will not participate in the consideration of any nominee with whom
they have a close personal or professional relationship.

A student member of FUAC will not participate in the consideration of any nominee from
the student’s major program or department or of any nominee who teaches a class that the
student is taking or is likely to take.

Committee proceedings are confidential.There
will be no
direct contact between Committee members and the nominee regarding
his/her candidacy while the nomination is under consideration. Any communication
with the nominee under consideration must be through the
nominator. Committee members will not discuss the Committee's
deliberations with anyone not on the Committee.

Commented [LW4]: Are we changing the current policy
that only requires recusal from deliberations of a colleague
from the same department?I