J24U2D BOUIIS UL|DOH By
Abojouys2| 40 262)/05 FR

AJOLN4O4S / pazi|pI9ads Fy
262}/09 ALisuaniun fy

dajua9 ALisuanlun &

sjuapuodsay Aaaung 40 uolLooiJissDjg sndwog

8

The Committee has access to historical data and expenditure data.

Respondents are 7.5 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as both fair and
effective when detailed expenditure as well as allocation data is provided. Of all the

respondents rating their campus budget process as fair and effective, all but one
indicates

that the budget committee has access both to historical and expenditure data.

The Committee engages in all-funds budgeting.
Respondents are 5 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as fair and effective

when the Committee reviews and makes recommendations on multiple funding
sources
(e.g., State Fund, DIFR, IFRs, Auxiliary Services, University Wide Programs
). Policy and
decision making for all the funding sources available to the institution
ideally do not

reside within one individual; campus
budget committee as well as through
of DIFR through Student Affairs and
Foundation funds through Academic

constituencies should be provided input through the
appropriate fund custodianship (e.g., custodianship
Residential Life, or custodianship of Research
Affairs and/or Project Directors).

10. The Committee makes recommendations on funding prioriti
es.

Respondents are 4 times as likely to rate their campus budget process as both
fair and
effective when the committee examines and makes recommendations
on funding
priorities. To the extent possible, the committee also makes recommendati
ons on the
allocation of discretionary resources (such as OTPS).

i. The Committee establishes linkages between budgeting and plannin
g.

Respondents are 3.5 times as likely to rate their campus budget process
as fair and
effective when the campus budget committee also engages in two or more
types of

planning (such as long-range planning, strategic planning, facilities and capital
planning,
etc.). An effective budget committee establishes a formal interface with other
campus
groups engaged in planning.

12. The Committee seeks an optimal allocation of resources,
so as to advance the

institution’s goals and mission.

Overall effectiveness of the budgeting process is correlated to the perceiv
ed equity and
effectiveness in resource allocation (where effective is defined within
the survey as

“serving to facilitate achievement of institutional goals”). To
the extent possible, the

committee seeks to optimize the allocation of resources to areas that
add value to the
institution (e.g., academic programs and research) and to streaml
ine the allocation of

resources to overhead (e.g., general administration). To assist in
these efforts, the
committee

regularly conducts or commissions benchmarking analyses
and assessment of
resource allocation effectiveness. Of all survey respondents,
89% of CFOs but only 24%
of CGLs consider the allocation of resources between adminis
trative and academic areas
of the budget

to be effective. But for those rating their campus budget process
as both fair
and effective, 94% of CFOs and 57% of CGLs conside
r the allocation

between administrative and academic areas to be effecti
ve.

of resources