State University of New York
College at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting

March 4 2005
Vice President for Student Affairs Report:

Janice J. Haynie, Ph.D.

di. Assessment:

This spring Old Westbury will participate in the National Survey of Student
Engagement. This national assessment is sponsored through Indiana University

with support from the Pew Charitable Trusts and the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Science. The NSSE will ask freshmen and seniors to answer
questions about their educational experiences: their classroom participation,
interaction with faculty, and time spent on various enriching activities, for

example. The goal is to help colleges to see how “engaged” their students are in
activities that lead to learning.
e
e
Il.

Old Westbury students have been sent the first mailing regarding the
administration of the survey.
Surveys will be mailed to student in April.

Counseling/Career Services:
The Counseling Center has a new Career Services Coordinator/Director:

Marleene Bhan. Ms. Bhan holds a MLS. degree in Student Development
Practice in Higher Education from St. John’s University. She recently served
as an Academic Advisor at New York University. Ms. Bhan has scheduled a
Job Fair for Tuesday, April 12" and a Graduate Fair for March 29".
Ul.

Student Union Radio Station:
Old Westbury has recently signed a contract with a Long Island engineer at
C.W. Post to install the radio equipment donated by Bloomberg and to begin
purchasing and installing other equipment for the college’s radio station. We
are anticipating an opening date in early summer.

IV.

Health Services:
A committee is exploring the possibility of mandatory health insurance for all
full-time students. Each semester we have a number of students involved in
accidents as well as students who become ill and are hospitalized without the
benefit of health insurance. The mandatory insurance initiative was proposed
by the Director of Health Services, Susan Mundy.

Spring Convocation:
Thanks for participation and involvement.
Dr. Michael Eric Dyson has agreed to return to Old Westbury in the fall for a
full day of dialogue on diversity with students in classes or in other small
groups. Dr. Dyson has agreed to return, without charge to the college, because
students expressed such an intense interest in knowing more about his views
on diversity after his presentation. Dr. Anker and I will start planning this

“Day of Dialogue” soon and invite other interested faculty and staff to
participate in the planning process.