STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

SPECIAL MEETING of the Faculty Senate and Full Faculty

Friday, November 20, 2020 

12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

Location: Zoom

Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Roster of Senators Present: Michael Kavic (Chair), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice-Chair, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Dana Sinclair (Secretary/Treasurer, LI), John Estes (At-Large Member to EC, CP), Runi Mukherji (At-Large Member to EC, Senator-At-Large (SAS)), Laurette Morris (University Faculty Senator), Roger Mayer (AC), Llana Barber (AS), Christos Noutsos (BS), Blidi Stemn (CE), Lina Gilic (EE, Senator-At-Large (SOE)), Deepa Jani (EN), Laura Anker (FY), Chelsea Shields-Más (HP), Doyoung Park (MACS), Sara Williamson (MMF), Sarah Smith (PH), Erik Benau (PY), Curtis Holland (SY), Catherine Bernard (VA), Ryoko Yamamoto (CAP), Danielle Lee (LEC), Sheyi Oladipo (APPC), Eric Hagan (TLRC), Ali Ebrahimi (FRRC, FUAC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Kalief Metellus (SGA), Oluwademilade Ogunlade (SGA)

Non-Voting Members of the Senate: Teresa Miller (Officer-in-Charge), Duncan Quarless (Provost/AVP), Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB), Diana Sukhram (Dean SOE)

Visitors: Dinorah Martinez, Lisa Chin, Malini kumar, Sylvie Kande, Jody Cardinal, Margaret Torrell, Evan Kobolakis, Youngjoo Kim, Regina Scarbrough, Wayne Edwards, Lorenz Neuwirth, Renu Balyan, Rose Muzio, Cris Notaro, Svetlana Jovic, Tejas Bouklas, Patrick O'Brien, Jermaine Archer, Ed Bever, Betty Berbari, Jacob Heller, Mona Rankin, Claudia Marin Andrade, Kinning Poon, Barbara Hillery, Martha Livingston, Anthony Barbera, Yogesh More, Rachel Kalish, Linda Camarasana, Kevin Ozgercin

Roster of Senators Absent: Xavier Marechaux (AE), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Jeanne Shimizu (ARPT), Hana Elgoarany (SGA)





MINUTES

AGENDA

0. Zoom Room Open: Tech check, Say hello on chat on arrival. 12:15 p.m.

I. Call to Order 12:30 p.m.

II. Approval of Minutes for Nov. 6, 2020                                               

Minutes were approved as amended

III. Chair’s Report          

New faculty senate meeting structure

Credit no credit resolution, Late add to the agenda, resolution will be discussed today, vote will not be held today. Cosponsored by the APPC. All senators will vote via email.

Policy Change by the APPC will also be on the agenda.

Initial announcement says we will be voting on CAP resolutions but now we will only be introducing no voting.

PRODiG Committee: looking for faculty representatives on this committee.

FUAC Update, committee is finalized.

Virtual Commencement on November 22nd, Important to support our students!

SGA Report: 400 students picked up bags at the curbside celebration.

Cosponsor-ship application will be ready by December 4th



IV. Officer in Charge Report	

Started with a thank you for faculty service.

Conducts weekly onboarding meetings with Dr. Sams, the incoming president, he will begin January 11 2021.

Classroom visits both virtual and in person has allowed her to learn about student experiences.

Students are reporting that they are doing three times the amount of work in the virtual instruction space with half the learning. Lack of professor/student engagement.

Preliminary results from SUNY satisfaction reports which is officially over December 4th.

581 students responded. 94.3 report being totally online and remote. 49% said satisfied or very satisfied and 28% said they were dissatisfied with the mode of instruction overall. 87% said they will be attending SUNY Old Westbury in the Spring.

5% drop in enrollment means a $1 million deficit. Retention is extremely important in this stage.

Most said they would want to go to in person classes in the spring 94% said they feared contracting COVID

Career development services and inability to meet people in their classes were also concerns.

Access to the library, adequate use of blackboard and more advising hours and raise quality of online instruction were items listed to make the spring semester more successful.

Integrated plan for Winter and Spring needs to be delivered to SUNY by December 10th.

Goal: More in person classes, tutoring and access to WiFi.

Acknowledges innovation in the Science and Media departments to advance community building efforts 

Applauded SGA and specifically Kalief Metellus for all the work they do to support their fellow students 

Sunday at 6:00pm, our virtual commencement ceremony will be aired on YouTube premiere.

Thanks to the commencement co-chairs Daniel Collins on the Office of Public Media Relations and Carolyn Bennett, the Office of Institutional advancement.

Complete report from SUNY  is forthcoming yet this shows students want more access and support.

					       

V. Provosts Report	

50% of first year students and sophomores are already registered for the spring. There is no way for the college to thrive without enrollment and he is grateful for all of the student success initiatives.

Aggressive tutoring and mentoring services will be implemented through the end of the semester. 

We have cognate math courses that really serve students not only to meet institutional proficiency requirements for their degrees, but are actually the cognates that support both gateway courses, and upper division success markers for completion of degree courses.

We have been using EAP analytics. We need to do all we can to produce student success

Spring semester: provide greater access to the physical Academic Support Facility of the campus

The library will be an academic center. 

We have remaining cares act money which should be utilized to improve quality of direct instruction.

So far the funds have been used to enhance the technology in the classrooms in the library. Also using the money to address health and safety concerns.

No later than December 9th, the test rooms will be available and faculty are being asked to volunteer to test the new technology. These rooms can support some manner of blended learning.

Middle States: there was a townhall meeting on November 9th. The revised draft was sent to our team, chair, Dr. Darlene Smith.

For her review, her preliminary campus visit, which will be a virtual campus visit  and will be on Wednesday, December 2, we've started distributing invitations to different people who were invited.

VI. UUP Report

UUP is active in working with  the state to come up with sources of revenue

Last week UUP had a rally to about the stock transfer tax

Campaign to urge the state legislature to come back now and start passing some things right away.

Pre holiday general membership meeting on the 16th of December at 1pm

Encourage management, to recognize appreciate the difficulties under which we are all working, and actually support the faculty.

VII. Proctorio 

Discussion on how to administer online exams especially in the hard sciences.

Privacy software called Proctorio is what was chosen by the initial group which promotes academic honesty. 

 A faculty guide for this software was created. There are instructions for implementation, there are instructions for how to communicate with students, there are also recommendations.

Chrome browser, mic and webcam use must be listed on your syllabus if you choose to use Proctorio. 

VIII. Facilities Dependent Courses/Faculty Survey Report 

Conducted faculty survey, COVID 19 impact survey end of October. 148 faculty members responded. 56% of faculty members responded. useful to have documentation of faculty experience.

Majority of faculty stated that remote instruction was difficult however some felt that it was great and could be even better.

Most were satisfied with their experience given the situation.

Also asked that how the remote instruction impacted their teaching, most stated that there was difficulty engaging with students. Students turning off their videos made this an issue.

Academic honesty was also an issue and became even problematic in certain fields.

Faculty feel the amount of work has increased.

Issues regarding technology, internet and equipment with limited ability to help students.

What could help to make remote instruction better? IT support and a study space on campus with internet connection.

Some also felt that onsite small group engagement would be helpful.

A question was asked, if a remote course was taught on campus would it be better? Only 16% of the faculty said yet. Majority said no. Safety is a major concern.

Dual mode teaching faculty deemed this not very effective.

Suggestions were given for reopening the campus as keeping classes remote but providing more on campus support for the students.

IX. Credit/No Credit Resolution

Resolution was read out loud.

The sponsors of the resolution are Laura Anker, American Studies, English and the APPC.

A discussion took place and it was announced that the vote will be taken through email.

Keeping in mind that the deadline for withdrawal is December 4th 

Friendly amendment for the date change that the it will now be the day before final exams.

X. CAP Resolutions

The name of each of the 5 resolutions was named into the record.

Resolution for micro credential requirements revisions

Resolution for post-graduation, awarding of two micro credentials

Resolution for minor in public health (there is a name change to minor in Community Health)

Resolution for micro credential in Spanish Translation from Modern Languages

Resolution for professional skills for the workplace from the school Professional Studies

Discussion will be at the December 4th meeting 

XI. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements 

An after party was held for continued discussion.

XII. Adjournment