SUNY / College at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate
Meeting Minutes - November 9, 2001
Present: N. Rosenthal, R. Colon-Urban, J. Lloyd, K. Wood, A. Bonnett, L. Davis, M. Barrett, J.
Llana, W. Shenouda, E. McGowin, J. Edelson, M. Colaneri, C. Franco, A. Martinez, A. Barbera,
M. Keizer, S. Mahmoud, M. Keefe, M Crocitto, J. Harris, H. Lewittes, S. Chovnik, S. O’Connor
Visitors: C. Mirra, F. Nieto, R. Gonzalez, R. Welton, R. Brown, N. Sacks, C. Wardell, D.

Papademas
1.

Corrections / Approval - October 26" Minutes
a. Senator Keizer was present at the meeting
b. On page 1, under the second comment after the Chair’s Report, change “at a cabinet
meeting” to “at a Town Hall meeting.”
c. On page 1, the second bullet in the Chair’s Report should read, “.. all faculty will receive
a copy in a binder.”
d. On page 2, the last sentence in the second bullet under External Review of Departments
should read, “External reviewers will report by department, although some majors will
require a second evaluation.”
At the suggestion of a senator, minutes henceforth will be numbered and paginated to
facilitate corrections.
The minutes were accepted unanimously as amended.

2.

Chair’s Report (Rosenthal)
a. Revision of agenda - there will be no report from the President, BPC, or University
Faculty Senate
b. Questions have arisen regarding Senate membership; these will be taken up by the
Bylaws committee
c. The Executive Committee is attempting to re-invigorate two committees that have ceased
to function: student life and admissions.
d. The Chair reported that the AVP is coordinating the drafting of a coherent mission
statement, as required by Middle States, and urged senators to think about who might
participate in this exercise . Upon learning that this would result only in an Academic
Affairs mission statement, the chair deferred discussion to a future meeting.

e.
f.

3.

Report from the Academic Vice President (Bonnett)

a.

The Senate

voted to support the creation of a single committee to derive an institutional mission
statement [10-0-1].
H. Lewittes will serve as Director of Assessment in addition to General Education after
the Fall ‘01 semester. We look forward to her leadership.
Funds for 2001/2002 common hour activities are in question. We are not sure whether
leftover funds from 2000/2001 are available, and new funds are not yet on campus.
Masters in Accounting - readiness review and proposal for to change the Master Plan
were sent to Albany today. State Education is expected to act in early spring.

FILE COWGATE

C:\MyFiles\Committee\Senate\Minute_011 109.wpdl September 28, 2001

DSI - Dr. Bonnett followed the committee’s recommendations, and he thanked

committee members for their work.
Budget - The budget climate is austere. Presidents of the Arts and Sciences Colleges

proposed that the Trustees move for a $200 tuition increase, in accord with most other

states. The OTPS budget is smaller than last year, and difficult decisions will have to be

made, with input from faculty on the BPC.

4.

e.

Construction - Dr. Bonnett is co-convening two building committees - Academic
Crescent and Science Building Improvement. The Student Union is due to be completed
in May or June, the dormitories in November.
The AVP echoed the Chair’s report on common hour funds. There will be some Spring

f.

Taste of Long Island - faculty were urged to attend.

activities, but fewer than last year.

Questions /Comments
a.

Dr. Bonnett referred questions about Foundation income to R. Brown. The current
Development Office has only been at the College for 8 months; 3 years will be required
to develop momentum.
Dr. Bonnett agreed that the BPC needs to address the disproportion between the

management and academic budgets.

Dr. Bonnett referred to M. Dolan a question about the role of BPC in the work of the two
new building committees. Dr. Bonnett did not know whether new dorms are being
constructed on badly built foundations from the earlier contractor, and will respond at the
next meeting.
While the Accounting masters degree is moving forward, the masters in Teacher Ed is on
hold. SUNY requires a complete proposal to move forward, and it is not ready yet.
Searches for TEP lines associated with the masters are on hold, but funds for these

positions will be available next year.
Several senators raised questions about picket lines on campus. Dr. Bonnett reported that
workers are protesting the lack of a union representative on campus. Contractors are
chosen by the Dormitory Authority without our input, and our administration has no

position on union work on campus.
5.

Report
a. Mr.
b. This
look

6.

Questions /Comments
a.
In response to questions about the BPC, Mr. Davis said that while the committee knows
this year’s allocation, it does not have expenditure records. This may be a result of poor
record keeping in the past, and part of his job is to puzzled this out. He is aware that the
mission of the BPC includes oversight and analysis, that the BPC makes
recommendations to the president.
A senator asked who allocates funds for the parking lots, and was directed to Mr.
Kimmins and the Capital Plan subcommittee of the BPC.

FILE COWGATE

from the Campus Fiscal Officer (Davis)
Davis described his background.
year’s budget is inadequate in comparison to campus plans. It will be important to
at energy efficiency, and to prioritize items in the strategic plan.

C:\MyFiles\Committee\Senate\Minute_011 109. wpd2September 28, 2001

7.

General Education Transfer Student Requirements (Lewittes)
a. Dr. Lewittes summarized the issues surrounding Gen Ed policies for transfer students,
which are designed to have academic integrity while maintaining our competitiveness
with other SUNYs and private institutions.
b.

c.
8.

Anew yellow Gen Ed booklet, with corrected wording, was distributed and discussed.

It

is designed only for incoming students with fewer than 57 credits. A new worksheet will
be designed for transfer students. For a while, we will have students following three
programs: old Gen Ed (GEI), new Gen Ed (GEII) and the transfer student policy.
The wording of the transfer student policy was clarified and approved by a vote of 19-00. The corrected copy is attached.

Human Subjects Research Review Committee (Papademas)
Dr. Papademas gave a history of the HSRRC, which has ben in place since 1983, but has
grown in importance with new Federal guidelines. The committee has developed a set of
guidelines for its use (attached). During the past 2 years, these guidelines have been
broadened to include unfunded research, and to include the psychological and emotional
realms in addition to the physical.

We have an ethical responsibility in this area. Federal guidelines properly ensure that

investigators are responsible and institutions are accountable for research involving human
subjects.
Dr. Papademas plans to inform the campus community on a regular basis about guidelines for
conducting research using human subjects.
9.

Questions / Comments
a. In response to a question, Dr. Papademas indicated that the committee reviews 3-4 cases
per year, mostly from off-campus constituencies.
b. There was a discussion about the need for students doing research to comply with
HSRRC guidelines. Students working on funded projects are already covered by the PI’s
compliance. The current policy exempts students conducting research as part of a course.
The Senate Executive Committee will work with the HSRRC to clarify which campus
activities require human subjects review.

10.

UUP Report (Franco)

The UUP Chapter president reported on recent union activities. The constitutional
amendment to remove term limits passed at the October Delegates Assembly. Part-timers’
issues were highlighted at information tables during Campus Equity Week.

11. New Business
A senator presented the following resolution, which passed [16-0-1]:
The Faculty Senate is opposed to the use of non-union construction contractors and other
non-union contractors on the SUNY Old Westbury campus.
The Senate will send a copy of this motion to the Construction Trades Council and the

FILE COWGATE

C:\MyFiles\Committee\Senate\Minute_011 109.wpd3September 28, 2001

Long Island Federation of Labor.
We ask that President Butts publicly support this Senate motion.
12. Announcements
There will be a conference at United Nations Headquarters on Friday, January 1 1°, on
Environment, Education and the United Nations:

Working Toward Sustainable Development

Information about the conference and a registration form are attached.
December 28".

FILE COWGATE

C:\MyFiles\Committee\Senate\Minute_011 109.wpd4September 28, 2001

The deadline is