TO:
FROM:
RE:

SUNY University Faculty Senate
UFS Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Committee
Support for Lactating Persons and Lactation Space(s) on All SUNY
Campuses

DATE:
LOCATION:
RESOLUTION #:
VOTE TALLY:

180th Plenary, October 18-20, 2018
SUNY Binghamton
180-02-01
For: 44; Against: 2; Abstain: 0

RATIONALE:
WHEREAS the SUNY Board of Trustees September 10, 2015 Resolution “Diversity,
Equity and Inclusion Policy” states in the Guiding Principles that “SUNY’s statutory
mission makes clear its responsibility to provide the broadest possible access, fully
representative of all segments of the population of New York State”; and
WHEREAS the SUNY Board of Trustees September 10, 2015 Resolution commits to
“ensur[ing] that services are in place to support retention of faculty and students; and
implement programs and strategies to establish a welcoming environment for all”; and
WHEREAS to ensure a welcoming environment SUNY needs to provide the opportunity
and space for all lactating persons on our campuses; and
WHEREAS no lactating person should be forced to request such accommodation as
New York State Law clearly states that it is an employer’s responsibility to provide a
lactating person a clean, available space; and
WHEREAS some SUNY campuses have already successfully and affordably
implemented accessible and inclusive lactation spaces; and
WHEREAS New York State Labor Law1 requires employees to have access to lactation
spaces within “close proximity” to their “work area.”

RESOLUTION:
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the UFS requests the Chancellor to require all

SUNY campuses to implement lactation spaces with proper accommodations2
consistent with NYS labor law; and

1

NYS Labor Law Section 206-C Breastfeeding in the Workplace Accommodation Law
(2007)
2

Accommodations according to the law include ample lighting, comfortable seating, a
desk or other flat surface, electrical outlets, a door that locks and a space that is
cleaned regularly

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all lactation spaces have specific additional
amenities recommended by the New York Department of Labor and Labor Standards
for these spaces including a small refrigerator and close access to a water source for
cleaning and sanitizing pump parts; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all SUNY employees be treated equally and not be
required to clock out for the purposes of expressing breast milk; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that lactation spaces be accessible to all lactating
persons, regardless of their gender identity, expression, or presentation; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that SUNY employees wishing to pump in their private
office have an option to lock their door and cover their window(s), if applicable; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that SUNY campuses follow New York Department of
Labor and Labor Standards’ recommended guidelines3 regarding expression of
breastmilk in the workplace; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a lactation coordinator4 be designated to facilitate
the rules and resolve disputes over the attached policies.

3

1. Providing educational information in the lactation room or area regarding the
benefits of breastfeeding and tips on expressing and storing breast milk including
posters, newsletters, books, and referral information to health education programs
about breastfeeding.
2. Allowing flexible work hours, job sharing, and/or part-time scheduling to
accommodate employees with children of nursing age.
3. Providing an easily accessible sink to wash tubing used for pumping breast milk.
4. Allowing lactating [persons] with nursing children attending on-site day care to take
breaks to breast feed in lieu of pumping.
5. Providing a listing of lactation consultants whom breastfeeding [persons] could
contact for assistance.
6. Including protection for pregnant and breastfeeding [persons] in the company’s
sexual harassment policy.
7. Designation of a breastfeeding coordinator to allow consistent and coordinated
implementation of this benefit in the workplace.

4

A lactation coordinator should be a volunteer position. Ideally, It should be someone
who works close to the lactation room, maintains the key, helps schedule the room,
checks on its cleanliness, reports problems to janitorial staff, and helps ensure the
campus is aware of the room’s availability.