REPORT OF THE TASK FORCE ON THE RELATIONSHIP OF THE CAMPUS
GOVERNANCE LEADERS TO THE UNIVERSITY FACULTY SENATE

PREAMBLE
The Policies of the Board of Trustees of the State University of New York states “The

[University Faculty] Senate shall be the official agency through which the University
Faculty engages in the governance of the University. The Senate shall be concerned
with effective educational policies and other professional matters within the University.”

At the campus level, the 34 Local Campus Governing Bodies fulfill a similar governance
function with the Campus Governance Leaders focusing on local campus matters.
Though not exactly the same, the relationship between the campus governance bodies
and the University-wide governance body is similar to the relationship between the

states and the federal government in our country.
responsive governance structure.

Both are essential to an effective,

In order to provide greater communication among the Campus Governance Leaders,
former Chancellor Boyer invited them to meet with him in Albany when he was the
Chancellor. The tradition continued with subsequent Chancellors providing support for
the Campus Governance Leaders to meet at the Fall Planning Meeting and Winter

Plenary Session of the University Faculty Senate. More recently, the Campus

Govermance Leaders also have convened during the Fall and Spring Plenary Sessions
as well. This past spring, in an effort to provide greater communication and participation
of the Campus Governance Leaders in the University Faculty Senate, a motion was
passed to increase the membership of Campus Governance Leaders on the
Governance Committee and to include the Convener of the Campus Governance

Leaders as an official observer at all meetings of the University Faculty Senate with full

parliamentary privileges except for the vote. This recent inclusion of the Campus
Governance Leaders in the meetings of the University Faculty Senate has raised a

number of questions about the respective roles, responsibilities, and relationship of the
two governance bodies. Responding to this concern, President Joseph Hildreth created
a special task force of present and former Campus Governance Leaders and Faculty

Senators to examine this issue and to report its findings and recommendations to the

University Faculty Senate (see the Appendix for the specific questions of the Task
Force’s charge and a list of Task Force members). This report is the summary of the
deliberations of the Task Force.

DISCUSSION OF QUESTIONS POSED IN THE TASK FORCE’S CHARGE
Relationship of Campus Governance Leaders and the University Faculty Senate
The relationship of Campus Governance Leaders to the University Faculty Senate is an

, important element of governance within the State University of New York that requires

2

cooperation, communication and, on occasion, collaboration. The need for coordination
is much greater now with a more assertive Board of Trustees and the broad nature of

issues such as general education, assessment, transfer problems, intellectual property
rights, distance learning, and other matters. It is no longer realistic to see these issues
as either local or state-wide; they are both.

The faculty voice in these matters will be

strengthened by closer collaboration between the University Faculty Senate and Local
Campus

Governing Bodies through their representatives, Campus Governance

Leaders. This does not mean that the two entities should merge.
issues to address that are unique to its area of responsibility.

Each has many

Campus Governance Leaders benefit enormously from attendance at Senate meetings
because it gives them an opportunity to learn about the SUNY-wide issues before the
Senate. It also affords an opportunity for Campus Governance Leaders to meet with
each other to focus on shared campus issues such as local governance problems,
bylaws, strategies for dealing with campus administrations, etc. These plenary
meetings provide an open forum for regular communication.
This necessary close collaboration would be enhanced by the Campus Governance

Leaders attending and participating appropriately in the Plenary Sessions of the
University Faculty Senate.

The present arrangement of Campus Governance Leaders

being invited to all the general Plenary Sessions seems quite appropriate and useful,
unless they decide otherwise.

One problem with this, however, is that Campus

Governance Leaders often need more time to meet on their own as well.

It may be

possible for them to arrange to meet as a group and share concerns on the Thursday
afternoon and/or evening before the Plenary Session and/or to have a working lunch on
the Friday of the Plenary Sessions. This would allow them to carry out their business as
they see fit and as their needs require, and to respond to current -- and perhaps rapidly
unfolding — events while also attending the various parts of the Plenary Session.
Assuming regular Campus Governance Leader meetings at the Senate’s Plenary
Sessions, separate, additional meetings of the Campus Governance Leaders at other
times may occur as circumstances require them.
The Convenor of the Campus Governance Leaders
The Convenor needs to be elected by the Campus Governance Leaders themselves. In
order to insure that the convener represents the varied campus constituencies, s/he
should probably be elected by mail (or e-mail) ballot at the end of the final spring term of
the current Convenor.

The person chosen as Convenor should be a Campus

Governance Leader at the time of election.

Also, to maintain some continuity in this

position, it would be useful to have the Convenor elected for a two-year term, though re-

election to non-consecutive terms may be appropriate in certain circumstances. A term
of office for more than two years might be too burdensome and make it difficult to get
someone to serve as Convenor; anything less that two years would mean that the
Convenor would complete her/his term and leave the position too soon after getting a
firm handle on it. While this may, on occasion, result in the Convenor no longer being a

3

Campus Governance Leader on her/his own campus, there is ample precedent for
her/him to continue in that position since chairs of the standing committees of the

Senate need not be Senators from their campuses and the President of the University
Faculty Senate is no longer a Senator from her/his campus during her/his tenure in

office

Having the Convenor as an official observer to the Executive Committee of the
University Faculty Senate would facilitate a direct and important relationship between
the Campus Governance Leaders and the University Faculty Senate. It would enable
the Convenor to present resolutions and to be a more active participant in the Plenary
Sessions.
The University Faculty Senate and Local Campus Governance Bodies

By designation of the Board of Trustees, the University Faculty Senate is the official
voice of the University Faculty to and within the State University. It is similarly clear that
Local Campus Governance Bodies are the voices of their respective campus faculties.
The role of the University Faculty Senate is to examine, debate, and represent the
University Faculty with respect to issues at the University level. An example would be

discussions on system-wide planning or on statewide budgeting. The Local Campus
Governance Bodies have analogous roles with respect to issues affecting their local
campuses; for example, standing committees of local campus governance often deal
with curricular decisions, or local planning and budgeting concerns. But in recent times,
issues have surfaced that reflect and impact on the traditional local decision making

processes of local campuses, yet at the same time transcend the level of single local
campuses to produce system-wide effects. A recent such issue is the imposition of a
system-wide framework for general education, an area traditionally left to, and
implemented by, Local Campus Governance Bodies that has now become an issue
system-wide.
Given their system-wide basis and effect, these transcendent issues fall within the

purview and role of the University Faculty Senate.

But since they also affect traditional

campus-related decisions and decision processes, they also fall within the purview and

role of the Local Campus Governance Bodies. Such issues are potentially dangerous
and highlight the need for coordination between the University Faculty Senate and Local

Campus Governance Bodies, primarily through their Campus Governance Leaders.
Othemise, there is a risk of both wasting energy and resources and the possibility of the

existence, intended or not, of a divide-and-conquer strategy that dilutes the faculty's
voice on system-wide matters. But such transcendent issues also present an

opportunity arising from the potential strength of the combined and coordinated efforts

of both the University Faculty Senate and the Local Campus Governance Bodies.

The

key determinant of which eventuality prevails lies in communication, coordination, and
cooperation between the two levels of governance within the State University of New
York.

4

Several structural strategies would facilitate communication, coordination, and
cooperation. One set of strategies needs to be taken at the system level—the level of
the University Faculty Senate. Another set of strategies needs to be taken at the level

of Local Campus Governance.

At a system level, local Campus Governance Leaders

need to continue to have opportunities to meet together to discuss common concerns,
whether these concerns are about common local issues or about transcendent issues.
In addition, local Campus Governance Leaders need to have a means for bringing their

concerns to the University Faculty Senate.

At the local levels, there need to be

structures in place to allow and facilitate communication from the University Faculty

Senate back to Local Campus Governance Bodies.

RECOMMENDATIONS
The Task Force recommends the following actions that incorporate some ideas
mentioned in the discussion above and some additional ideas that emerged from its
deliberations.

A. For the University Faculty Senate:
1. Campus Govemance Leaders continue to meet together several times each
year at the three plenary meetings of the University Faculty Senate.
2. At the Plenary Sessions, Campus Governance Leaders meet together at a

time that is independent of meetings of University Faculty Senate committees, sectors,
and plenary sessions, so that they can both participate fully together with one another
and also attend the various segments of the University Faculty Senate Plenary
Sessions.
3. Campus Governance Leaders meet together with their respective sectors at
sector meetings of the University Faculty Senate.
4.

Campus Governance Leaders report the results of their deliberations to the

University Faculty Senate through the Convenor independently of the standing

committee and sector reports.

5. The convenor of the Campus Governance Leaders be an official observer to

the University Faculty Senate and its Executive Committee.

6. The Governance Committee consider common local operational concerns
brought to it either by the Campus Governance Leaders or the University Faculty
Senate Executive Committee.
7.

Reports and actions of the University Faculty Senate be sent to the Campus
Governance Leaders.

B.

For Local Campus Governance:

1. The local University Faculty Senators be members of Local Campus

Governance Bodies and their Executive Committees.

2. The local University Faculty Senators routinely provide reports emanating

from the University Faculty Senate Plenary Sessions to Local Campus Governance
Bodies, their Executive Committees, and campus faculty.

3. The Convenor of the Campus Governance Leaders be elected by mail (or email) ballot for a two-year term at the end of the spring term of the current Convenor.
Re-election to non-consecutive terms may be appropriate in certain circumstances.

APPENDIX
Charge to the Task Force

In order to strengthen our relationship with the local governance organizations and to

avoid a duplication of effort, this task force is being

formed. The group is asked to.

develop a set of guidelines by March 15, 2002 that define and clarify

the relationship of

the Campus Governance Leaders to the University Faculty Senate. Suggested
questions for discussion :

[Questions about the Relationship between the University Faculty Senate and the
Campus Governance Leaders]
1)

Whale (be

relationship of the local governance leaders to the University Faculty

2

enate?
What is the reason for their attendance at University Faculty Senate meetings?

4

Which portions of the University Faculty Senate meetings should the Campus

3

a}

6

Which meetings should they attend?

Governance Leaders participate in?
When should the Campus
Governance Leaders meet separately?

What is the purpose of their separate meetings?

[Questions about the the position of the Convenor of the Campus Governance Leaders]

7
8

9

How and when is the Convenor of the Campus Governance Leaders elected?
How pages the term of the Convenor?

What is the relationship of the Convenor to the University Faculty Senate?

[Questions about the relationship between the University Faculty Senate and the Local
Campus Governance Bodies]
in}
11

What procedures should be taken in order to avoid redundancy?
What is the relationship of the Campus Senate to the University Faculty Senate?

Task Force Members

Vincent Aceto, Albany—Past Senate President; Chair, Public Information Committee;
Co-editor, Faculty Senate Bulletin

Jan Factor, Purchase—Past Convenor of the Campus Governance Leader; former
Campus Governance Leader

Norman Goodman, Stony Brook—Chair of the Task Force; Senator; Co-editor,
paculy Senate Bulletin, Student Life Committee; former Campus Governance

eader

Raymond Guydosh, Plattsburgh—Senate Executive Committee, Senator, Campus
Governance Leader

Lareaine Homer
eader

Delhi—Chair, Student Life Committee; former Campus Governance

David King, Oswego—Campus

Governance Leader

7

Daniel Murphy, Utica/Rome—Chair, Governance Committee; former Campus
Governance Leader
Carl Wiezalis, Syracuse HSC—Senator; former Campus Governance Leader