SUNY/COLLEGE at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, November 1,2002

12:30 p.m-2: 15 p.m.

Room C 102 Academic Village
Present: R. Colon-Urban, K.Velsor, M. Crocitto, K. Wood, P. O’Sullivan, J. Conforti, R.J.
Edelson, C. Franco, A. Martinéz, A. Barbera, M. Metlay, B. Hillery, C. Sawyer, C. Hobson, M.
Keefe, R. Kalmans, G. Snedeker, M. Miller-Lamb
Visitors:

1.

C. Wardell, R.Welton, N. Sacks

Approval of the Minutes for Friday, October 18, 2002
The minutes were unanimously approved after a quorum was obtained at 1:00 p.m. with the
following corrections:
p. 1 b: Hildress changed to Hildreth; The University Faculty Senate has not approved...
p. 1: The Old Westbury foundation held a breakfast for the new Board of Directors;

:

p. 2: Item 4: Questions and Comments. C. Wardell replaced with C. Bernard
p. 3: Item 7a) 1) 2
paragraph: - if we wait to the end of the semester, we...
3™ paragraph - when the Middle States report is due.
p. 5: Item 11: “Greenwood”
was coordinated by Mandy Friskin
p. 5 Item 10: A proposed friendly amendment was not further articulated and not voted on. It
will be considered as a separate item in this meeting.
Report from Faculty Senate Chair (R. Colon-Urban)

a)

b)
c)

d)

Judy Lloyd was honored at the Chancellor’s Recognition Dinner Honoring Research in
Science, Engineering and Medicine for her work in detecting reactive gases in the
atmosphere, which are related to air pollution.
BPC nominees for membership Judith Walsh (Comparative Humanities) and Sirousse
Tabritzchi (Finance — School of Business) were approved (Yes - 14, No - 0, Abstain — 1).
Faculty Senate Website — The Chair has not been able to continue her work on the
website due to the absence of a Web Manager. She will continue to work on it and looks
forward to it as a means of communication.
The Chair has received complaints about the Common Hour, especially from students
who don’t know where and when it is. A general discussion took place concerning
scheduling of the Common

Hour, availability of activities, and communication about the

time and place of activities. R. Welton noted it was more disruptive to take out an entire
time period than to have a rotating time. A. Barbera reminded the faculty that the present
system is on a two-year trial basis. Next spring, the Executive Committee will examine
whether the present system has been effective.
Report from the President
The President was unable to attend the Senate Meeting as he is meeting with the Chairman of
the Board of Trustees, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees’ Finance Committee, and the

Governor.

The Faculty Senate Chair read his letter to the Senate (attached). |

4.

Report from the Academic Vice-President (P. O’Sullivan)
a)

The AVP distributed a handout about the DSI process in order to be as precise as possible
(attached). The consensus at Chairs meetings and the Administration agrees, that equity
should be considered with merit. Since percentage based merit awards created future
disparities and compounded them, the AVP recommended to and the President agreed
that fixed dollar amounts be awarded.

R. Kalmans questioned the fairness of considering equity with merit. Because she is one of
the lowest paid faculty in her rank, she has to work one and sometimes two part-time jobs.
Due to this situation, she cannot produce research and material for merit, as she would like to
do. If people were appropriately paid, they would have more time for research. The AVP
noted that just because someone was working twenty years in a particular rank does not
justify a salary increase. There needs to be merit to justify the increase. When questioned
about pay compression wherein new faculty are hired at a higher rate than existing faculty,
the AVP remarked that you always have that.
M. Metlay commented that some people choose not to apply for DSI because of past
outcomes. Just because someone doesn’t apply doesn’t mean there hasn’t been merit.
C. Hobson remarked that it is an intellectually confused rationale to not have equity apply to
people who do not have special talent because the gap will grow over time. It should be
corrected even if the person doing a good but not outstanding job. The person has the right to
be considered for a pay increase.
C. Franco inquired about awards to part-timers but the AVP did not know of any. The UUP
representative noted that we have given such awards in the past, but the Committee has
chosen not to in the past several rounds.
‘
The disparity analysis for the faculty included years at Old Westbury, rank, years in rank, and
average salary across the SUNY system.
b)

The AVP distributed a list of faculty development grants (attached) and asked the
senators to encourage their constituents to apply. Dr. O’Sullivan indicated he wasn’t sure
he had the discretion to extend the date for the Presidential Faculty Development Grants,
but if he does, he will extend it. The purpose is to encourage research, especially among
younger faculty, in order to be prepared for future tenure and promotion.

ions/Di
ion
The general discussion addressed previous frustrations in having prepared paperwork in
application only to have the application denied due to the time frame in which the funds
would be expended. The Administration does not automatically keep the application for the
next round. The AVP noted there is a “dead zone” for activities taking place after June 30".
He also agreed to M. Metlay’s suggestion to rollover unused funds from one semester into the
next. Complaints were also lodged about the length of time until notification of awards, the
narrowness of what awards could be used for, and difficulty in obtaining reimbursement. The
members of the Committee are Basilio Serrano, Onita Hicks, J.P. Lee and Marie Metlay.

awards process should be revisited.

The

5.

University Faculty Senate Report (M. Dolan)
This report was deferred and will appear on the agenda for the meeting on November 15.

6.

UUP Report (C. Franco)
a) C. Franco reminded people to apply for UUP grants either by paper as distributed to
faculty in the mail or by applying on the web: www.uup.Imc.state.ny.us.
The professional development awards only extend from 9/1/02 until 6/30/03, which is
when our contract expires. Applications will be reviewed February 1 and notification
will be by March 30th. Faculty were urged to look at the back of the guidelines to avoid
omitting information on their application.
b)

November 1 is the last day to submit questionnaires on the web.
be sent to C. Franco or B. Hillery.

Hardcopy versions can

c)

The following deadlines were announced:
1. 11/1-11/30 to exchange sick leave to pay for health insurance
2. 11/15 deadline flexible spending account for dependent care, health care

Questions/Discussion
C. Hobson asked about the issue of term versus full-year contracts for adjuncts. The AVP
explained that 97% of the operating budget was going to payroll. The Administration needs
the flexibility to move full-time faculty into adjunct sections when courses are cut due to low
enrollments. A term contract did not mean adjuncts were going to be replaced, but there is no
commitment to grant full-year contracts. C. Franco noted the UUP has a commitment from
the Governor that there will be no layoffs due to budgetary reasons. We should advocate for
more resources to cover the expenses of maintaining faculty rather than planning for an
austerity budget. President Butts getting resources is the way to go about it.
7.

SGA Report
No representative of Student Government was in attendance to give a report.

8.

Old Business
Cathy Wardell announced $25,000 in Research Foundation Grants is available to faculty with
another $34,000 for scholarships.

Most of the Foundation funding is obtained from their

dinner, which is November 20". Everyone was encouraged to attend. The AVP also noted,
for the record, that Richard Brown is working very hard to increase the amount of money
available for faculty research and development, scholarships, and for an honors program for
students.
Nancy Sacks has tickets to the campus production of “Greenwood” on November 8".
The Resolution in Support of President Calvin O. Butts, IIT’s Speech at SUNY College at Old
Westbury, October 9, 2002 (distributed to the Senate on 10/18) was deferred until either
Barbara Joseph or Denton Watson presents it to the Senate.
In the previous meeting, a friendly amendment to the resolution Jn Opposition to the Bush
Administration’s Plan for War again Iraq was not voted on and was introduced as a new
item. The amendment includes the following addition to the original resolution: Whereas,
going to war would put our students and family members in the military at risk. It was
approved (Yes-15, No - 0, Abstain — 2).

A resolution will be introduced at the next meeting urging the Administration to award fullyear contracts to adjuncts who have worked six consecutive semesters. The faculty requested
that the Executive Committee to ask for:
1. Clarification about what the criteria are and how they are used to determine which
courses would be canceled. What is the enrollment number and to which courses
are they being applied?
2. The implications of these cancellations for less populated courses required for a major.
3. The timing of these decisions as they create some difficult situations in faculty
schedules.
Faculty governance has a different tonality on the issue than do chairs. Faculty should protest
the injustice to adjuncts with a long history of service who also rely on teaching two courses
to maintain health insurance. Although adjuncts are covered by the union contract, and the
Governor and others have committed to no layoffs, adjuncts have been dismissed on the basis
of budget, not enrollments. It would be a public service to make this known.
The Executive Committee took note of these points.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:15 p.m.