STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, October 18, 2019 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NAB 1100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes



Roster of Senators Present:  Andrew Mattson (Chair), Christa Devirgilio (Secretary/Treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian, Math/CIS), Michael Kavic (At Large Rep to the EC, CP), Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Ashley Alvarado ( SGA), Laure Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At-Large), Helidon Gjergji (Senator At-Large), Roger Mayer (AC),  Blidi Stemm (CE), Jillian Nissen(BS), Camille Jones (CP), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Edislav Manetovic (LEC), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Runi Mukherji (University Senator Alternate), Erin Toolis (PY), Shijian Li (PH), Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young Park (Math/CIS)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Claudia Marin Andrade (VP Student Affairs), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean, SOB)



Visitors: Jacob Heller, Duncan Quarless, Manya Mascareno, Frank Sanacory, Mohamed Khalefa, Ryoko Yamamoto



Roster of Senators Absent: Laurette Morris (University Senator), Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), Deepa Jani (EN), Lisa Payton (AE), Jingyi Song (HP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Ana Martinez (Professional), Amanda Frisken (CAP), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC)





			  0.	Meeting arrival and sign in	

			

			  I.	Call to Order		

			

			  II.	Approval of minutes for September 6, 2019	

			Correction to minutes: Camille Jones was present

			Motion to approve was seconded. Minutes as amended were approved by voice vote.

			     

			III.	Chair’s Report	

			Some vacancies have been filled since last meeting.

			SPAARC is working and has met for one of its 2 meetings for the semester, and is preparing a rubric for all the divisions in regards to Strategic Plan. Those will come back to us at the December 13th meeting, and we will discuss. By the middle of January we will have a written update on how each division is fairing in the implementation of the strategic plan. A call was sent out, and only one candidate volunteered for the Academic Affairs working group – Lori Zaikowski

			FUAC new chair: Myong-Hi Kim 

			LEC new chair:  Edislav Manetovic.

			Filling LEC vacancy: Chelsea Shields-Mas (Arts & Sciences) volunteered to be the Social Science domain rep. 

			PRODiG – the committee asked for a couple more faculty members to serve, Diana Sukhram and Deepa Jani will now be on for at least the rest of this year.

			

			IV.	Provost Report	

				Provost:

			2 curricular engagements, one with Westchester College and one with SUNY Farmingdale. What we are looking to do, Westchester College offers associated degrees, there is no public college for education in Westchester, so the students are going other places. BS in Childhood Education and BS in Special Childhood Education will now be offered in partnership. We would offer the courses they need at Westchester. 

			What we are hoping to do is to provide a service. We have had several discussions with SUNY.

			Jacob Heller is working with the School of Education and Westchester Community College; it is our hope that we get this done by the end of this semester.

			Also a discussion with SUNY Purchase, who will also offer courses there. 

			Jacob Heller stated that it is an extension site giving them an opportunity to be Old Westbury students but at Westchester College.

			As soon as they are admitted they become Old Westbury students, just take all of their classes there at Westchester. Also using Old Westbury faculty hired for that site.

			State regulations must be followed and Middle States will be notified 

			We have to ensure cost effectiveness, Westchester has 12k students, 4 years ago a discussion with Westchester in regards to offering an accounting degree. This would, however, add difficulties for us that we do not need. 

			We see a decline in the School of Education and will start there in order to increase our enrollment in that program.

			Anthony Barbera is not here. Nevertheless, Farmingdale offers technology education as well as health education; for MAT/BS we would offer the education classes and they would offer the technology classes.

			MAT/BS in health education - we are hoping this will be a joint effort for joint admission that will lead to greater cost effectiveness.

			One long term goal for the college is long term financial stability

			Major driver on the revenue side is enrollment and we have to ensure that we have better predictability in terms of enrollment.

			PRODiG discussions: Bill Kimmins, Martha Livingston, met to discuss the process advocate; it is still evolving and the discussion ended favorably.

			What we need to do is nail down some of the characteristics and authority of the process advocate. What we agreed on is, if we continue to hire as we have done in terms of diversity as we have done over the last 5 years, we would lose diversity at Old Westbury.  

			There are many facets to this including the discipline, there is a meeting next week on the 23rd with the deans, and there will be another discussion that will include PRODiG

			The faculty has been given at least 2 versions of the PRODiG proposal, and they responded to SUNY’s request for proposals. Our initial proposal has been given some feedback from SUNY. As you look at it, appreciate it for what it is, it includes some things that we think are projections and some items that will occur.

			The nature of what is happening in the proposal, it is a formative plan. We are identifying for SUNY our efforts to diversify our faculty moving forward, the nature of what we do with the ad and the placement of it.

			A discussion began about the importance of diversity here at Old Westbury, and suggestions on how to attract hire and keep diverse faculty members; suggestions are directed to be emailed to the PRODiG committee.

			If we do this right SUNY will pay for this; we are under a timetable in competition with all the other SUNY campuses, minus 7 of them.

			For African American PhD’s the unemployment rate in the United States is almost zero. PRODiG doesn’t care if you didn’t keep them, it’s whether they were hired or not.

			Faculty mentorship program is ongoing. All those who attended the new faculty Orientation were given forms to fill out, so we can match them with a mentor. Early November an email will go out. 

			

			Jacob Heller gave update on Middle States Working Groups. If you get an email please respond and help wherever you can. We will soon be hearing from Middle States in terms of selection of chair of our evaluation team. You may be called on to do stuff.	

			

			V. 	University Senator’s Report	

			            - Laurie Morris report is included in the materials emailed for today’s meeting.

			

			VI.     Special Order of Business: Nomination & Election of Vice Chair and At-Large Rep to the EC. 

			Motion to open nominations. 

			Mike Kavic was nominated for position of Vice Chair; nomination was seconded.  

			Helidon Gjergji was also nominated for position of Vice Chair; nomination was seconded.

			Both candidates introduced themselves. Paper ballots were distributed.   

			While the election by secret ballot was taking place, and during the time that ballots were being collected and counted, several Senators asked questions about the Presidential Search.   

			

				Comments from the Senate Chair regarding Presidential Search: 

			There was an update on Presidential Search at full faculty meeting (10/4). 

			Today President Butts is meeting with the Chancellor; we are waiting for outcome of this conversation. As of last meeting, nothing official is set. 

			We do not yet have new College Council Chair. The College Council is supposed to be submitting names for Interim President. Technically, the president is not supposed to be involved.

			If we are not submitting names, then the Chancellor’s office will choose someone for us. It is really unclear as to what is happening with that.

			The administration is working to get ready for the interim president, whoever that is, but as to how the presidential search stands we are not sure.

			A search firm will be chosen, and once one out of nine [finalists] is chosen, the Presidential Search Committee will convene.

			The Parliamentarian asked if any of the faculty duly elected to the Presidential Search Committee were participants in group selecting the Search Firm.   

			A member of the Search Firm selection group, C. Marin Andrade, said she would provide the list of members of that group.      

			Senators raised concern that College Council delegated to the administration certain things that should have been done by the College Council, according to SUNY Guidelines. 

			Faculty elected to Presidential Search did meet to discuss what their priorities are, but nothing formal has begun; it may be good to contact the faculty on Search committee.

			Questions were raised regarding Search firm RFP, and lack of leadership of College Council; Presidential Search process will be given time on agenda of next Senate meeting.   

			

			Announcement of election results: Vice Chair of Faculty Senate - Michael Kavic was elected.	 

			At-Large Representative to the Executive Committee: Helidon Gjergji was nominated and seconded. As sole nominee, Helidon was elected to the position by unanimous consent.  

				

			

			VII. 	Old Business 

			Ali Ebrahimi gave update on process for ARPT Manual revision

			Bylaws Working Group of FRRC has met to discuss the new proposed ARPT Manual, as accepted by Senate in May. The proposed revised Manual is already out. 

			What we need to do is individually, look at all those changes, to see how they will affect you, new faculty as well as seasoned faculty.

			There are TWO Town Hall meetings for discussion of proposed changes to ARPT Manual: Wednesday, October 30th at Common Hour in the Campus Center Recital Hall, and Thursday November 7th from 5pm-7pm in NAB 1100.

			We will send a flyer and encourage everyone to come and have an energetic discussion. It is not good to vote for something, and then find out later that there are issues with it. 

			Also, in Town Hall meeting, we have two other tasks: one is proposal for SPAARC, we will live with for another 5 years, and the Bylaws Appendix will have to be changed to replace RABPC with SPAARC. 

			Another task is to suggest any other appropriate changes needed in the Faculty Bylaws.

			You will see there are many things that are being revised, and things you may agree with or not agree with. Any changes to Faculty Bylaws must be approved by a full faculty vote. 

			Proposed revisions to the Bylaws will be voted on by end of Fall 2019 semester: to approve or not to approve the ARPT Manual as revised. 

			After input from faculty at Town Hall meetings, it is possible that amendments to proposed revisions may be offered and included on ballot. 

			The Bylaws Working Group is very clear that all faculty should have input in the process. 

			

			

			VIII.	New Business

			 Opportunity for senators to ask questions on reports that were circulated via email.

			LEC Annual Report (Edislav Manetovic)

			Campus Green Committee (Maureen Dolan) – see attached

			

			IX.	Announcements / Concerns  

			Concerns about SUNY Elsevier contract negotiations. 

			Erin Toolis (PY) brought to the floor the issue of access to science journals needed for research. Several senators voiced concern about status of Elsevier and issue of student access. Discussion will continue at next Senate meeting, November 1st, with possibility of resolution.  

			Concerns about Presidential Search process and role of College Council will also continue at next Senate meeting. 

			                                                                                     	

			X.   	Adjournment 	2:30p.m.

			

			

			  

			

					

			

				











SUNY Old Westbury

Campus GREEN Committee

 Maureen Dolan, Chair



Update for the Faculty Senate (10/18/19)



President Butts recently authorized re-establishment of our Campus Green Committee. This committee is intended to engage the campus community (faculty, students and staff) in initiatives that will advance Old Westbury as a Green Campus, consistent with the college’s Strategic Plan, Mission and Values. 



Campus Green Committee will support SUNY and NYS goals related to renewable energy, sustainability and climate action, and coordinate with regional, statewide and national organizations on energy, environment and climate change. 

SUNY Sustainability Coalition has adopted UN Goals for Sustainable Development. These goals extend beyond green energy, greenhouse gas emissions and environment, to addressing income inequality and ending poverty. 

New York Coalition for Sustainability in Higher Education, comprised of public and private colleges. NYCSHE facilitates workshops, webinars, student contests, and promotes green programs and sharing of information.



Campus Green Committee will explore campus-wide initiatives and opportunities for external funding, such as relates to:  

REV Campus Challenge: the state-wide initiative which focuses on Governor’s “Reforming the Energy Vision” for transition to 100% renewable energy. 

Climate Action and Community Leadership Act: ambitious legislation passed by NYS in November 2108

NYSERDA: which administers billions of dollars for energy, environmental and climate action projects, through a range of competitive program opportunities. (M. Dolan has secured NYSERDA funding since the late 1990’s for various campus and SUNY-wide energy/sustainability initiatives.)     

Recycle-mania: student-led nationwide recycling contest, which can be facilitated through Green Committee.

Campus Crunch: statewide initiative to raise awareness of local food sourcing.   

National Rankings of Green Campuses, including by U.S News & World Report, Sierra Cool Schools.



In preliminary meetings with M. Dolan, Dr. Butts indicated that initial focus of re-convened Campus Green Committee should be the new STEM Building and development of proposals for urgently needed funding. The Green Committee: 

Will explore possible campus-wide initiatives in support of STEM. 

Promote and articulate a vision for the future of the college, for advancement of sustainability and social justice. 

Build connections between new STEM building (physical plant) and innovative programs and activities in support of climate action and environmental stewardship.



We are building on success. The Campus Green Committee, initially convened ad hoc in 2009-2010, was very productive: 

Undertook Sustainability Audit whose findings were presented at state-wide conference

Expanded recycling and use of green materials on campus

Began organic garden and mapping project. 

Student participants in Sustainability Audit presented at Research Day: seven (7) research projects on energy/emissions, recycling, water conservation, glacial aquifer, and sustainability in dining services.    



Getting started: please get in touch with Maureen Dolan if you are interested in serving on Campus Green Committee. Bring this information back to your departments and those you represent. Kick-off meeting in a few weeks. Green Committee invites all those interested (faculty, staff, students) to participate. Work will be organized through sub-committees, such as energy/emissions, climate action, recycling, food and water, residential life, raising awareness.



-----------------------------------

Dr. Maureen Dolan

Mathematics/CIS Department

Parliamentarian, Faculty Senate

Campus Green Committee, Chair

New York Coalition for Sustainability in Higher Education: 

NYCSHE Regional Representative for the Long Island Region

Email: 74601.1372@compuserve.com