Proposal to CAP: Minor in Digital Design Marketing
                 Attn:  Dr. Frank Sanacory, Chair
Date Submitted:  January 23, 2016
From:  Sponsoring departments: Visual Arts and Management, Marketing and
Finance -
       Professors Patty Harris and Barbara Olsen



Rationale and Synopsis (re:  College Catalog 2016-2017)
The Digital Design Marketing minor is an interdisciplinary offering that
empowers students from all disciplines with the knowledge they need to
attain employment in today’s highly competitive, digitally-driven business
environments. The goal of the curriculum is to provide the technological
skills of interactive web and digital media with the marketing acumen to
competently deliver optimal provider outcomes with cutting edge expertise
and elegance.  Students will learn how to develop successful marketing
plans and design effective visual communications that engage the
conception, pricing, distribution and promotion of well-conceived brands
with unique identities. In conjunction with an academic foundation in
marketing skills and graphic design, students learn to use Adobe Creative
Suite software: InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Flash and
ePub, applied to designing page layout, logos, and typography for
packaging, poster, book, e-book, environmental designs and mobile
applications. The overall objective is to provide experiential know-how for
the graduate to compete as an entrepreneur, marketer or employee empowered
with today’s latest skills and abilities.

Requirements:
The minor requires a total of five courses and a minimum of 18 credits
distributed as follows:

A.  Foundation Courses: two courses - required
School of Business                           Visual Arts
BU 3800 – Marketing Principles               VA 2320 – Graphic Design I

B.  Electives: choose the remaining 3 courses from the following course
list.
Note: Students from majors other than Marketing or Visual Arts
must choose a minimum of one course from BU and one course from VA. The
third elective can be either a BU or VA course based on individual
preference.

BU 5800 – Marketing Research            VA 3400 – Digital Imaging
BU 5880 – Brand Theory & Strategy            VA 4320 – Graphic Design II
BU 5851 – Consumer Behavior             VA 4260 – Interactive Web Design


Demand:
As the offering is a joint minor between the Visual Arts Department and the
School of Business, we anticipate primary demand from both of our
departments. Visual Arts will benefit from the Department of Management,
Marketing and Finance students taking Graphic Design I (VA2320), Graphic
Design II (VA4320), Digital Imaging ((VA 3400) and Interactive Web Design
(VA4260).  The School of Business benefits from the Visual Arts’ students
taking Marketing Principles and Concepts (BU3800), Brand Theory& Strategy
(BU5880), Marketing Research (BU 5800) and Consumer Behavior (BU5851).  Our
other audience for this Minor in Digital Design Marketing is spread across
the campus from all departments in the School of Arts and Sciences, the
School of Business, and the School of Education.
      Business environments today are increasingly digitally-driven and
highly competitive.  All sectors of the economy now communicate and market
their companies through digital technologies using social media, graphic
design, and interactive web applications.  Having the skills that our minor
provides, all of our students will be better prepared to enter the job
market or expand their own digital marketability if currently employed.

Resources:
There are no extra costs to the college by offering this minor.  The
courses Marketing Principles and Concepts (BU3800), Brand Theory & Strategy
(BU5880), Consumer Behavior (BU5851) and Marketing Research (BU5800) are
offered every semester and are taught by existing faculty.  The courses in
Visual Arts, Graphic Design I (VA 2320), Graphic Design II (VA 4320),
Digital Imaging (VA 3400), Interactive Web Design (VA 4260) are offered
every semester by existing faculty.

College Policy Re: Minors
The Undergraduate College Catalog states, “All minors require a minimum of
five courses and 18 credits.  A minimum of 16 credits in the minor must be
taken outside the student’s major.  Up to two courses in a minor may be
transferred from another institution” (2014-16, p. 121).