Tenure for the Common Good

3/30/2020
For Immediate Release:
Statement on Equity and Teaching During the COVID-19 Pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic presents significant challenges to higher
education. Tens of thousands of faculty are suddenly moving into
teaching online, often with little preparation and inconsistent support.
The austerity environments many predict, in which enrollments fall and
hirings freeze across institutions, will affect contingent faculty first and
most harshly. It is crucial to focus on the situations of these colleagues.
Their positions, already more precarious than most, will likely worsen
more quickly than those of the tenured and tenure-track faculty.
To their credit, universities have wisely assisted by revising tenure clocks
and eliminating elements of evaluation regimens because those
evaluations cannot be done reliably or fairly in such emergency
circumstances; centers for teaching and learning have been working in
overdrive to offer faculty their expertise in online learning. Libraries are
finding ways to provide access to research resources while faculty are
locked out of campuses.
Yet, as happens all too often, contingent faculty, including graduate
students, who constitute approximately 70% of the American
professoriate, are generally included in these efforts only in piecemeal
ways. Despite active participation in the herculean effort of bringing our
curricula online, many contingent faculty are receiving little support from
their institutions. This is particularly worrisome. Online classrooms, for
example, especially ones established hastily under the conditions of
stress, are vulnerable to abuse. Some, who seek to identify and punish
instructors they believe engage in inappropriate “indoctrination,” can

abuse this shaky new structure, creating a significant threat to academic
freedom.
As stay-at-home and lockdown orders reduce the number of options for
online-accessible workspaces, contingent and other non-tenure-stream
faculty face challenges beyond those of their tenured and tenure-track
colleagues. Access to the equipment necessary to teach well online can be
spotty; some lack adequate access to the internet. Not even equipment
and access solve all the problems that many poorly-compensated faculty
face working at home: lack of space; sense of safety/security; and so on.
All faculty, whether on or off the tenure track, face real struggles at this
moment, and all need support. Many of the issues and recommendations
in this statement are true for faculty of all ranks and statuses; however,
every one of our common struggles is significantly more difficult for our
colleagues who are the most precarious and worst compensated. We
hope that professional organizations will recognize these needs and
provide whatever help they can.
If the pandemic does have the effects on education many of us fear, we
may see serious reductions in student populations. Many contingently
hired faculty may see their jobs disappear. Their hard work helping make
the transition happen now will not help them.
Solidarity demands that we support and protect our contingent
colleagues just as we are working to protect and support our tenure-track
colleagues. We should always do so, but the current situation amplifies
the need.
We therefore call on institutions to act on the following
recommendations, which rest on the central principle that contingent
faculty should have the same resources, assistance, and protections
against financial and professional damage that tenure-track faculty have,

and due to poor compensation and working conditions, may have even
more acute financial needs.
Support for teaching while social distancing
• Make sure contingent faculty are included on all contact lists
concerning policies toward faculty and institutional support for
remote/online teaching.
• Offer emergency technical support and equipment to contingent
faculty as well as students and tenure-track faculty.
• Recognize that contingent faculty may need flexibility that tenuretrack faculty do not . Do not promote synchronous over
asynchronous scheduling. Do not require contingent faculty
teaching at multiple institutions to use multiple video conferencing
apps or technology platforms.
• Compensate contingent faculty for the unexpected additional labor
of converting courses to remote/online platforms. While all faculty
should be compensated for the additional labor, contingent faculty
are generally not eligible for other forms of compensation (e.g.,
comp/reassigned time, service credit).
Changes to evaluation/renewal/hiring processes
• Suspend student evaluation of teaching for this semester.
• Suspend teaching observations for the current semester.
• Suspend annual evaluations, especially for non-tenure-track
instructors, for 2019/2020. If your reappointment protocol demands
evaluations, consider asking faculty to self-evaluate.
• Extend multi-year or rolling contracts for one year, especially for
faculty whose appointments end in Spring 2020. For faculty on
shorter contracts, grant renewals unless financial exigency makes
doing so impossible.

• Assure, in writing, that renewal decisions will not be negatively
affected by current disruptions.
• Resist using the current crisis as an opportunity to exploit
contingency further by hiring more contingent faculty into
precarious positions.
Protecting academic freedom, intellectual property, and professional
autonomy
• Relax departmental supervision of individual instructors for the
current semester except in extraordinary situations. Contingent
faculty should not undergo supervision that tenure-track faculty do
not.
• Defend the academic freedom of all faculty, including contingent
faculty. This means supporting faculty who face online harassment
for their views, and rejecting attempts to discipline faculty
expressing allegedly controversial ideas.
• Protect contingent faculty ownership of course materials they
create as they revise/remake courses to teach online. Contingent
faculty frequently develop courses/curricula that programs take
over without compensating them. As faculty redevelop courses en
masse, this risk is heightened.
• Compensate non-renewed contingent faculty for curriculum they
have developed that remains in use after their non-renewal.
Mutual care and support for precarious faculty
• Establish sick-day banks, or similar support mechanisms, for faculty
who cannot meet their teaching responsibilities due to personal or
family illness.
• Establish systems of support for contingent faculty that can help
provide food, housing, and money for other costs.

• Give contingent faculty who want more credits priority when
assigning teaching that would be overload for tenure-track/tenured
faculty.
• Include contingent faculty when assigning other compensated work
(e.g., assessment), and strongly consider giving them priority.
• Prioritize the redirection of funds saved from cancelled/postponed
events and travel disbursements in spring 2020 towards the needs
of contingent faculty.
• Agree not to contest unemployment insurance claims by contingent
faculty for Summer and Fall 2020 terms.