Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes

Friday, May 9, 2014

(Prepared by Kerwin Kaye, with assistance from Kevin Jean-Louis)



Full Faculty Meeting



Members of the Faculty Present: Duncan Quarless (Chair, presiding), Minna Barrett (University Faculty Senator), Kerwin Kaye (Secretary-Treasurer/Sociology), Cristina Notaro (At-Large Representative to Executive Committee/History & Philosophy), Laura Anker (Director, FY/AS), Jermaine Archer (American Studies), Llana Barber (American Studies), Aubrey Bonnett (American Studies), Rita Buttermilch (School of Business), Carolyn Cocca (Politics, Economics & Law), Jeffrey D’Amico (School of Business), Maureen Dolan (Math/CIS), Niev Duffy (Politics, Economics & Law), Jacqueline Emery (English), Curt Friehs (Library), Juan Galvis (History & Philosophy), Robert Gero (Visual Arts), Amara Graf (English), Kathleen Greenberg (Psychology), Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages), Robert Hoyte (Chemistry and Physics), Peter Ikeler (Sociology), Cary Lange (School of Business), Lingxiang Li (School of Business), Thomas Lilly Jr. (Politics, Economics & Law), Martha Livingston (Public Health), Edislav Manetovic (Politics, Economics & Law), Joseph Manfredi (American Studies), Manya Mascareno (Biological Sciences), Laurette Morris (Psychology), Runi Mukherji (Psychology), Fernando Nieto (Biological Sciences), Kevin Ozgercin (Politics, Economics & Law), Diana Papademas (Sociology), Lillian Park (Psychology), Werner Sbaschnik (Library), Stephanie Schneider (School of Education), Jeanne Shimizu (Math/Computers & Information Science/School of Education), Samara Smith (American Studies), Jing Yi Song (History & Philosophy), Diana Sukhram (School of Education), Lisa Whitten (Psychology), Konrad Wu (Chemistry and Physics), Gilda Zwerman (Sociology), Alonzo McCollum (professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Camilla Swasey (SGA)





Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:  Calvin Butts (President), Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Mary Marquez Bell (VP Enrollment), Barbara Hillery (SAS Dean), Anthony Barbera (SOB Dean), 



Visitors Present: Mary Marquez Bell (Enrollment Services), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Marc Seybold (Computing Science), Myeshia Price (Psychology), Sandy Kaufmann (Institutional Research and Assessment), Deborah Rhem-Jackson (Academic Affairs), Kevin Jean-Louis (recording).



	I. Call to Order: 12:42pm



		II. Chair’s Report

A. Resolution regarding Posthumous Recognition

Resolution asks President Butts to recognize a student and asks the Faculty Senate (esp. APC) to craft a regularized policy in this regard.

Resolution moved and seconded; approved unanimously by voice vote.



III. Provost’s Report

			A.  Asking for approval from faculty for candidates for graduation (list prepared by Pat Smith). Resolution moved and seconded; approved unanimously by voice vote.

B. Thanks to the Faculty and Staff for the year’s work.



IV. President’s Report

A. Thanks to the Faculty and Staff for the year’s work.

B. The production of a periodic review report related to the renewal of Middle States Accreditation will begin over the summer.

C. Provost has submitted recommendations for a series of changes:

1. Reduction of GE credits from 48 to 36.

2. Move from 80 to 72 credits for residency requirement.

3. Altering the class schedule:  shortening the Common Hour, shortening each class period by 10 minutes (with coursework made up via online postings), adding a course period during the day.



D. Questions from the Faculty

1. Regarding scheduling change: Scheduling change is more about providing flexibility for the students than about space concerns. 

Dr. O’Sullivan: Chairs were asked to speak with colleagues and report back. Chairs made many recommendations. He heard from all departments except Math and also heard from student body.

2. Regarding Open SUNY: A request to advocate on behalf of poor students who may not have access to adequate computers.

3. Shared governance

	Faculty Senate Chair expressed concern about the process utilized in coming to the scheduling recommendations. They would like more clarity regarding procedures for shared governance. Additional concern about the recommendation toward partial use of online instruction; this is a change in the modality of instruction that raises many questions. Other members of the Faculty Senate expressed similar concerns. 

President Butts expressed a desire for shared governance, but also expressed a desire to make changes quickly



V. Report from Faculty University Awards Committee by Robert Hoyte



The committee evaluates and recommends professors for Distinguished Professorships and Excellence Awards. Guidelines are available on SUNY website. FUAC has 8 voting members, all supposed to be senior (and one voting student member).Report to be placed on the Faculty Senate Website: https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/



Senate acceptance of the committee report moved and seconded; approved unanimously by voice vote.







VI. Old Business



A. Seamless Transfer Report

A draft is available, including a one-page summary prepared by the Executive Committee. Hoping to turn this draft into a finalized report ready for approval at the May 23rd Senate meeting. Please, send any feedback before that day.



B. Still in need of a quorum on electronic voting (we have 78 votes; need 100). A question was raised about whether the bylaws permit an extension on the vote. The Faculty Senate Chair indicated he will discuss this issue with the Senate Parliamentarian (Jacob Heller). 





VII. New Business



A. A need to better assess faculty governance

1. Create Faculty Service Awards

2. Pictures of Executive Committees



B. A need to consider which metrics are appropriate in measuring our success as an academic institution. The Chancellor is developing SUNY-wide metrics. These will likely be imposed on us if we do not develop our own.



C. CAP resolution regarding creation of a BA in Public Health (presented by Cary Lange). This will inform SUNY of our intention and allows for a 30 day comment period within SUNY. The proposal would move the degree out from “Health and Society”

Motion to accept the resolution made, seconded, and approved by unanimous voice vote. 



D. Climate Resolution (on shared governance)

Motion to table until May 23rd. Seconded. Motion to table approved by unanimous voice vote. 



E. Brief presentation from Marc Seybold (Computer Science). He is asking faculty if there is interest in iPads instead of laptops, and also asking if there is interest in MacBook Airs rather than Pcs. Faculty express interest in both options.





VII. Motion to Adjourn: 3:30pm