SUNY/COLLEGE at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting
Friday, April 4, 2003
12:30 p.m-2:30 p.m.

Room C 102 Academic Village
Present: C.O. Butts, III, K Velsor,
J. Conforti, C. Bernard, I. Ahmed,
G. Snedecker Visitors: B. Newell,
R. Gonzalez, M. Kinane, N. Sacks,

M.
A.
L.
R.

Crocitto, K. Wood, P. O Sullivan, C. Wright,
Martinez, A. Barbera, B. Joseph, C. Sawyer, B. Kalmans,
Anker, R. Brown, M. Marquez Bell, L. Davis, J. Banrey,
Welton, W. Kimmins, E. Ewen, M. Colaneri

1. Approval of Minutes for Friday, March 28, 2003
The minutes were approved with the addition of C. Bernard as present.
2.

Announcement from Chair — College Council
There was no report from the Faculty Senate Chair. The time was given to Briding Newell,
Chair of the College Council. Chair Newell asked for faculty to partner and assist in getting
more funding to the College by attending fundraising events such as the Taste of Long Island
and Polo Match, which provide grants and scholarships.

3.

Report from the President (Calvin O. Butts, III)
The President reinforced Chair Newell’s request by noting the efforts of the Foundation,
Council, staff, and the President are necessary in supporting relationships, especially since
the State will not be forthcoming with the necessary dollars to fund the institution. He
thanked Chair Newell for her appeal.
Site Visit: The evaluation team was complimentary about the faculty, our preparedness, and
our Acting AVP O’Sullivan and those who worked with him in building the Accounting
Program and Masters degree. SED is now compiling their report, it will be submitted to us
for response and then move to State Board of Regents. Hopefully, the first class for the MS
in Accounting will be held Sept. 2003.

Search for AVP: The search was successful, Lawrence Cox signed a letter that he will join

the College July 17th. The President thanked Bob Hoyte, Mary Marquez Bell, and the search
committee as well as P. O’Sullivan.

Middle States: The President thanked Anthony Barbera and Judy Walsh for preparing the
Middle States follow-up report which was thorough and submitted before the April 1
deadline. Things are moving along with Middle States and State Ed Dept. with no criticisms
we should be concerned about. Our emphasis has shifted from recruitment to development.
We can’t attract level of people we need with the salaries we offer.

Three- or Four-credit issues: Correspondence on the matter has been forwarded to the
President’s Task Force, which will provide a recommendation next month. The Task Force
will continue with its purpose of providing information, research and giving everyone the
opportunity to participate in the discussion. The Task Force will offer information, ideas,
and recommendations, not decisions.
Budget:
Westbury
will have
R. Brown

Await outcome of State budget process. Re five year plan, SUNY and Old
are on the same page, enrollment is consistent, the President is optimistic that we
funds to maintain a quality standard of operation. To go beyond we need to rely on
and the Foundation.

Residence Halls: Student Union: The final three residence halls will be open and ready by
fall. Students are happy with new dorms. The Student Union is turned over to the campus

with an extensive punch list. It should be completed by midsummer and ready for our
students when they return in the fall. The Bloomburg organization will send a team to look
at the radio station to suggest ways to get us up and running.

Exchange Programs: Two exchange programs this summer in China have been canceled.

The exchange students from China are due here mid-August.

If a cure for SARS is not

found, we will review the situation. The exchange program in South Africa is in December.

. Academic Vice President (Patrick O’Sullivan)
Our General Education assessment plan was approved by Systems Administration. The

Associate Provost complimented us for having an “excellent plan” and hopes that we will
implement it fully. The AVP commended H. Lewittes and the General Education Committee.

The first reports from the three-versus four-credit two subcommittees were submitted. The
next subcommittee meeting and reports will be May 2, which is not the final meeting.

3+3 Prelaw Proposal from CAP Committee
This item was deferred until the next meeting to allow for the revision of a template.
. CAP Resolution - Task Force Credit Hours (M. Colaneri)
The Chair of CAP noted that CAP feels strongly about the three- or four-credit issue and
read the following statement: CAP has an important and central role to monitor and assess
the academic quality of our various curriculum. CAP is therefore deeply concerned with the
process by which we are debating the three- versus four-credit model given the deep,
widespread, and irreversible impact that such a change would make, CAP has formulated the
following resolution. Read the resolution.
A Task Force member visiting the Senate noted it was the understanding of the Task Force
that theirs would be just one recommendation among others. Dr. Butts stated that he did not
understand the resolution. He asked the Task Force to report to him within a specified time
and expected that other committees should go through their usual processes. He emphasized
that he never wanted to circumvent any standing governance committee, they have the right
to proceed as they normally do.

The President stressed the need to move quickly. We have a great attrition rate for transfer
students than we do for freshmen. He was concerned about the “paralysis of analysis” and

will not disband the Task Force. This decision impacts how we will relate to transfer

institutions coming out of our main feeding institutions. It is a serious matter, as students are
making a decision about whether to attend OW based on our credit offerings.
The AVP noted precedence for using Presidential task forces as appropriate to look at those
things which have a significant impact on the structure of the College. The resolution
proposed by CAP is too focused on education quality when other factors are involved. He

ask whether documentation exists to support the part of the resolution stating that a change in
credit offerings would have a negative impact.

The question was raised as to whether a three-credit system would attract transfer students.
The President responded it is a major issue in conversations with community college
presidents and deans. There is no basis now to conclude that community college students
moving from a three-credit to four-credit system would take longer to graduate.

When asked why he did not turn to faculty governance to establish the task force, the
President stated it wasn’t necessary, emphasizing that he did not by-pass faculty governance.
He reserves the right to have a task force to complete a report as soon as possible with
information from all segments of the College community about an issue which involves more
than academic considerations. He would never wish to circumvent CAP. The President
commented that the last part of the resolution asking him to disband the Task Force would
put him in a confrontational mode with the faculty, which he would not like to be in. The
AVP commented that he recommended many members of the task force after consulting with
the chairs. The purpose of the task force was not to change to a three-credit model, but to
provide information to use to support the present structure of four credits. The President
stated he will not make a decision before the new Vice-President Academic Affairs is in
office.
Faculty stated that the point of the resolution was not to insult the president, but to express
concern that speed of analysis prevents thought. This issue was raised in the 1995 Middle
States report, we responded, and it was dropped. The AVP noted his concern was with what
was best for students and faculty; it doesn’t have to be all three-credit or all four-credit
model, but perhaps a mixed model. The President encouraged CAP to move as quickly as
possible. We needed an answer soon because students are chosing to go elsewhere, of
particular concern because we want to get the best students.
Faculty suggested that CAP look into the issue of whether we are losing transfers either
because we are using a 4-credit model or because students are confused as to which way we
are going to go; the CAP Chair agreed. Mary Marquez Bell noted that the greater attribution
rate for transfers may be due to more than just one issue.
The Chair of CAP stated that in light of the discussion, he wished to withdraw the resolution.

The Task Force has created a questionnaire for students to be distributed to classes to
ascertain student satisfaction or dissatisfaction with school, classes, anything to do with the

three- or four-credit model; other surveys will be given to faculty. The President felt peace

come over us and said that he loves us all dearly.

Resolution OSSD (Barbara Joseph)
Prof. Joseph read the resolution. Craig Wright asked whether inadequate service was
equivalent to noncompliance, since we have never been in non compliance. He raised four

questions: 1) Can we quantify inadequate services? 2)Where do we recommend the money
come from? 3) Can we quantify the need for f/t secretary? 4) Have we consulted with the
BPC for budgetary impact of the proposals?.

We are not claiming noncompliance, but that the current staffing is inadequate and our

students are underserved. Faculty offered examples of how understaffing has impacted
students and that it is morally unfair to invite students when we can’t serve them. Dr. Butts
agreed and will send a letter to Albany informing them that we are not able to provide for
these students due to budget cuts. He encouraged faculty to pass the resolution even if we
can’t do the things asked for right away, as it has the highest priority with him.

The Resolution was tabled due to the lack of a quorum.
Chair Newell noted the Council is glad COB is here, we should look at the broader issue
which is we are one of the lowest funded colleges, need strength of community to come
together. She knows our wonderful faculty give so much time and how much students
appreciate it.

Status of Reports on Three- or Four-Credit System
This item was deferred until the next meeting. Senators are asked to bring their comments
and reports on the issue in writing.

9. Announcements
Faculty were invited to the Sigma Lambda Beta Fraternity dinner on Friday April 11, 2003,
with proceeds going to the Probini foundation to support education for the needy and orphans
in the Indian subcontinent.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:30 p.m.