Faculty Rights and Responsibilities Committee (FRRC)

Annual Report 2019-2020



Respectfully submitted by Alireza Ebrahimi, Chair

 



Members:  

FRRC consists of seven members with four continuing members: Seojung Jung, Yu Lei, Shijian Li, Blidi Stemn, and three new members: Alireza Ebrahimi, Sheyi Oladipo, Katarzyna (Kasia) Platt. 			

MEETINGS (FRRC, Bylaws, Town Halls) (2019-2020)



The first meeting of FRRC was held on September 18th, 2019: 

The meeting opened with an introduction of committee members, followed by an explanation of the role of the FRRC, presentation of the Annual Report 2018-2019, and identification of work to be completed and presented to the faculty senate. 

The committee elected Alireza Ebrahimi as the chair and Sheyi Oladipo as the new secretary.

Bylaws Working Group was formed by the following members: Maureen Dolan, Blidi Stern, Seojung Jung, Julio Gonzales, Mervyn Kaizer, Lorenz Neuwirth, Alireza Ebrahimi.

ARPT manual revision was discussed, and to set two town hall meetings for awareness.

FRCC faculty survey results were discussed with 31 responses online and 19 hard copies. The Quality of life received the most response, followed by instructional support. The Quality of life issues includes the lounge, parking, etc. 

SPAARC issues were discussed concerning having a new president as well.

The ratio of Junior Faculty and Senior Faculty in committees were discussed.

Faculty Bylaws Working Group Meeting

The meeting was held on October 11th, 2019 with the members Maureen Dolan, Alireza Ebrahimi, Seojung Jung, Mervyn Keizer, Lorenz Neuwirth, and Blidi Stemn,

In accordance with the Senate resolution to accept the proposed revisions to the ARPT Manual, the Bylaws Working Group was also directed to conduct the appropriate review and facilitate the process for faculty comments before submitting the revised ARPT Manual to a vote by the full faculty for inclusion in Appendix of Faculty Bylaws. There was a complete discussion and two workshops on 10/30/2019, Wednesday, October 30th, during common hours (2:30 pm – 4:00 pm) and Thursday, November 17th (5:00 pm – 7:00 pm). 

There were suggestions about the importance and emphasis of service in the ARPT Manual regarding involvement in governance. It was agreed that ballots need to be by mail.

The SPAARC committee's issue, which is intended to replace Resource Allocation and Budget Planning Committee, was discussed. Also, the impact of the new presidency on ARPT and SPAARC was a concern of the FRRC as well.



Town Hall Meeting I

On October 30th, 2019, the next meeting was held to discuss changes to propose to Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure (ARPT) Handbook Revisions. 

This includes awareness of the implications of the proposal on the faculty. There were opportunities for Questions and Answers and suggestions to modify the changes. 

In addition, there was a question and answer session on the role of SPAARC (Strategic Planning, Analysis, Assessment, and Review Committee).

Town Hall Meeting II 

On November 7th, 2019, the next meeting was held to discuss changes to propose to Appointment, Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure (ARPT) Handbook Revisions. 

This includes awareness of the implications of the proposal on the faculty. There were opportunities for Questions and Answers and suggestions to modify the changes. 

In Addition, there were questions and answers on the role of SPAARC (Strategic Planning, Analysis, Assessment, and Review Committee).

The next meeting was held on November 19th, 2019: 

The annual report of 2018 – 2019 was discussed, and members were asked to contribute to compile and present the information. 

A student grievance was discussed, and an academic grievance committee was formed.

There was a report on the Bylaws Committee on two town halls and suggested modification for the ARPT Manual to be given to the chair of ARPT and incorporated.

The Cover letter and ballots are being designed and will be sent to faculty in their departments. 

Regarding the faculty questionnaire, Quality of Life was identified as one of the issues topmost on the faculty's minds.

A workshop on this is being planned for the Spring 2020 semester on Quality of Life.

The meeting discussed Title IX, which covers sexual discrimination, harassment, and violence in the syllabus. The initial proposal was presented by Marin Andrade, the Dean of Students and the Deputy Title IX Deputy Coordinator.




The next meeting was held on February 12th, 2020: 

It was reported that Shijian Li was on sabbatical, and Professor Dr. Karl Grossman volunteered to serve for the remainder of the semester. 

A Faculty Grievance regarding the appointment was discussed. Also, the members were concerned about the lack of observation of adjunct faculty before becoming full faculty.

The committee agreed to work on the Annual Report for 2018-19 and present it to the Senate.  



WORKSHOP



Town Hall meetings were prioritized, and a new strategy was planned for future FRCC workshops due to the COVID-19.



STUDENT GRIEVANCE



The Academic Grievance Committee (AGC) convened with three members of the FRRC and a member of the department involved in the case. Three student grievances reached the FRRC during 2019-2020. In one case, the grade was upheld. In the second case, the grade status was changed to CR/NC by the student. Therefore, the grievance was not applicable. The third case was a continuation of the previous informal grievance 2017 case and its aftermath- the student discontinued the case.        

The Academic Grievance Committee (AGC) met on Thursday, October 24th, 2019, and reviewed the materials provided by students in the Biology Department. They offered materials by students, and the syllabus clearly states the breakdown for the final grade. Therefore, the committee voted to uphold the final grade.     

A grievance was submitted by a student in the Public Health Department on May 3rd, 2020. The AGC met to discuss the student's case. The grade status was changed to CR/NC by the student; therefore, the grievance was not applicable. However, the student received a CR for the course.



FACULTY GRIEVANCE



There were three cases of grievance. One proceeded with mediation, and the faculty resolved the issue with a constituent. The other two faculty grievances were on hold due to the request from the faculty.



FUTURE PLANNING 

  

Examine Quality of Life issues on campus. 

Discuss final grade submission deadline, currently 48 hours after giving the final exam—automated system. 

Instructional and technological support. Extended hours, at nights and weekends.

Bylaws Revisions.