Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes

Friday, September 12, 2014









Senators Presents: Shalei Simms (Vice-Chair Presiding/MMF Dept.), Jacob Heller (Parliamentarian), Minna Barret (University Senator), Cristina Notaro (At-Large Rep. to Exec. Committee/H&P), Kathie Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Caroline Sawyer (Univ. Senator Alternate/Senator At-Large), (Kathleen Velsor (Senator at-Large), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Laura Anker (First Year Experience), Curt Friehs (Library), Lingxian Li (Accounting), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Diana Sukhram (Exceptional Education), Laura Chipley (American Studies), Michaiel Colaneri (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf (English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages), Edislav Manetovic (PEL), Fred Millan (Psychology), Ashlee Lien (Psychology Alternate), Shijian Li (Public Health), Robert Gero (Visual Arts), Patty Harris (VA Alternate), Christopher Hobson (ARPT Com.), Alireza Ebrahimi (TLRC), Werner Sbaschnik (Nomination &  Elections).   



Senators Absent: Costas Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large), Manya Mascareno    (Senator At-Large/Biology), Ana Martinez (Professional), Marc Kettler (Professional), vacant (Student Gov’t. Assoc.), vacant (Student Gov’t. Assoc.), Camilla Swasey, (Student Gov’t Assoc.), Laura Lemonic (Sociology), Cary Lange (CAP Com.), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC).



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Mary Marquez Bell, (VP Enrollment), Wayne Edwards (VP Students Affairs), Anthony Barbera (Dean, SOB).

 

Visitors Present: Sandy Kaufman (Director Institutional Research & Assesment), Yumi Nicholson (Advising), Aubrey Bonnett (American Studies), Deborah Rhem-Jackson (Director Institutional Research & Assestment), Joel Feiner (Assistant to Dean SOB), Maxine Nwigwe (FTE), Kathena Francis (Advising), Geta Techanie (Chair, Math/CIS), Laura Limonic (Sociology), Rita Buttermilch (Accounting), Tom Delgiudice (PEL), Nicole Sieben, Maria Carolina Bustamante, Dinorah Martinez (recording).





Call to Order: 12:35pm



Approval of Minutes of May 23, 2014 (if available)

Minutes not available







Chair’s Report



Last year we voted on a resolution for scheduling and as a result a Task Force Committee was constituted and the members are: 

Jacob Heller (Chair)

Amy Hsu

Cary Lange

Duncan Quarless

Ron Welton

They will review our current schedule and assist with development of any necessary changes that fit to accommodate our needs.



Dr. Jingyi Song was appointed for one year term at ARPT Committee to replace Dr. Amanda Frisken who stepped down and now is the new chair of the GenEd Committee



According to the Bylaws, all Committees must be constituted by the third week of the Academic Year. In the case any committee still has their annual report pending, the new chairs are asked to submit their reports ASAP.



President’s Report

None



Provost’s Report



Enrollment is the basis for our revenue. This year we met our enrollment target but we can’t afford to reduce our enrollment nor miss our target in the future or we will face a declining budget. We will focus on enrollment for about the next five years.      

We are meeting with people who specialize in analyzing data and programing to give us ideas with respect to enrollment.

The General Education committee is currently discussing some changes, which they will present to the Curriculum and Academic Planning (CAP) Committee and also to the Senate for consultation.

The Class Schedule is currently under discussion by the Task Force. Faculty input is important. A subcommittee may be set up.

In reference to Residence Requirements, Professor Quarless and I will be in communication with a number of Community Colleges with respect to the number of transfer credits. We agree that we have met the transfer residence requirement and we will take as many as 80 credits.

I had a meeting with the Chairs of Departments on June 17 and I gave             numerous handouts that day with many attachments, which the chair of your department should have. I am hopping there will be some discussions in departments about it.

About Residence Hall Student Engagement Program; Edward, Wayne and I are communicating to provide a more scholarly environment in our residence halls to extend engagement with faculty to help in various ways and advise students by going to the Residence Halls. This idea is evolving. There is nothing fixed about this for lecture or discussion. Faculty could discuss anything they feel is useful to the students. We are talking about any obstacles that students face, particularly freshman. By faculty going there one hour and talking to students it could make a difference. It is an effort to engage in retention.

Adjunct salaries: I have looked into raising adjuncts’ starting salaries from $3, 000.00 to $3, 200.00, $3, 300. 00 many times. We think we will be able to make some changes on that to provide some sign of appreciation to those who teach 46% of the courses we have now. The proposals were submitted yesterday.

Also submitted to Len Davis was the proposal for a system to better compensate the department chairs. We need good people to do this work and it is crucial for us and for their departments. It will provide an incentive for those who are running away from being a chair. The goal will be to add an amount to the salary base for each year up to a maximum of two consecutive terms, which will be by then six years of service. We will also have a performance evaluation at the end of each year if we go for this.

We need another revenue stream, another cohort of students. We can also provide an opportunity for those who wish to teach in this new unit. The aspirational model is what they have in NYU in the School of Continuing Education and Professional Studies. It will be a separated unit in the sense that will provide various certificates, various programs and will be geared toward the weekend. It will bring another group of students. We can also have some online courses here.

I ask some of you to give us more ideas. It is a unit to grow and hopefully will          generate more revenue for the campus in general.

Ron Welton is working on a new catalog. We also want to have a graduate catalogue. We do need a General Education Bulletin and that will come forward when we settle some new standing issues, some of which we discussed this morning.

I am very interested on department feedback on the Early Warning System about engaging students to give them a signal and let them know what is happening to them. I ask you to give some kind of examination that provides in some way the name of those people who are at risk in the college. If you have some people who are in jeopardy and you see it right away, the advisors will help out in reaching the students. Retention is a real issue for us.

It takes two to three years of transition for new faculty to understand faculty guidelines, culture and all the rest. Let’s talk about the difficulty at Old Westbury. Many of them have told me they don’t feel comfortable talking to faculty within their departments, but I ask all of you to act as mentors to new faculty. I want to have a list of those faculty members willing to allow new faculty into their classrooms to observe how they teach.





The Writing Center has moved to the Library

Mary Altabet is still in the second floor of the Campus Center doing Math Tutoring.

I have moved back to the four floor of the Campus Center.



New Business



Most faculty members have not yet responded to the Resolution on Governance Compensation Policy.

The spirit of the Governance Compensation Resolution is to acknowledge the people who serve as chair by providing a monetary compensation to this position. The idea was to bring this to the Faculty Senate to encourage participation.  It works for the department chairs and we need an incentive. Now we have the new Senate elected, so we are able to take it up. 

We don’t give amounts in the Bylaws. Some Campuses get compensation for this position and others do not.

The vote for this resolution will be in the next Faculty Senate meeting.

Faculty Senate Elections

Dr. Kathleen Velsor is elected to serve as Faculty Senate Chair for the Academic Year 2014-2015. 

Fernando Guerrero was nominated as Vice-Chair, Robert Gero as Secretary-Treasurer, and Kathleen Greenberg as At-Large Member.







Announcements

The next Full Faculty Senate Meeting will be on October 3rd, followed by the next regular meetings on October 31st, November 14th, and December 5th, keeping December 19th just if it is needed.

In October 2nd The First Year Program in collaboration with the Women Center are having a speaker called Julie Otsuka who wrote The Buddha in the Attic at the Student Union Multipurpose Room from 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM and all Faculty are invited.

Ryoko Yamamoto (from Sociology Department) is the new Chair of TLRC.

New Faculty attending the meeting were introduced to the Senate at this point.





Adjournment 1:34 PM







Page 4 of 5