Resolution on Cr/NC
Whereas the Covid-19 pandemic has disproportionately impacted low-income families and
people of color, magnifying gaps in educational achievement and access to academic resources;
Whereas, SUNY Old Westbury, in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, closed its residence halls
and has moved to an entirely remote teaching platform, which is challenging for all students, but
particularly students of color and economically disadvantaged students, who are more likely to
experience academic hardship because of poor internet and access to technology, housing and
food insecurity, the lack of availability of space conducive to study, familial job loss and health
issues resulting from exposure to the coronavirus as essential workers, as well as difficulty
obtaining affordable medical care.
Whereas Old Westbury is the most diverse SUNY with the highest proportion of students
receiving some form of financial aid, and an historic social justice mission that commits the
College to the values of access, equity, empathy, anti-racism and intercultural understanding.
Be it resolved that the Faculty Senate urges the Administration to extend the deadline for
declaration of Credit/No Credit to December 15, 2020. The policies regarding Credit/No Credit
remain as stated in the current 2018-2020 Undergraduate Catalog. Academic departments may,
at their discretion, develop additional temporary academic advisories regarding Credit/No Credit
in response to the Covid-19 crisis. Any such additional temporary departmental advisories, if
created, will be circulated to advisors and students.
Be it further resolved that an undergraduate student may elect a Credit/No Credit option without
the permission of the instructor until the deadline above. Specific restrictions on the Credit/No
Credit option vary by department major. Students should consult with an academic advisor in
their major program. Additionally, students who receive financial aid should consult with a
financial aid counselor in the Financial Aid Office. Students should refer to the 2018-2020
Undergraduate Catalog for departmental, proficiency, and major requirements.
Be it further resolved that the student’s request (form found on the student portal) must be filed
in the Office of the Registrar no later than December 15, 2020. Once submitted this contract
cannot be cancelled. Courses taken for a grade of CR or NC do not affect the GPA.
Be it further resolved that the College disseminate information to students by email, Instagram
and on the College Website about the availability of the Credit/No Credit form on the student
portal and on how to access and submit the form immediately upon approval of the policy by the
Administration.

Sponsored by:
Faculty: Laura Anker, Director of First Year Experience
Academic Departments: American Studies, and English
Standing Committee: Academic Policies and Practices Committee