SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, February 27, 2004
12:50 - 2:40 pm

Present: K. Velsor, E. Linger, J. Edelson, C. Butts, L. Cox, R. Brown, J. Haynie, J. Conforti, S.
O’Connor, M. Colaneri, I. Ahmed, A. Martinez, C. Mirra, D. Quarless, C. Sawyer, C. Hobson, M.
Keefe, G. Snedeker, M Veve, M. Adams (Visual Arts)
Visitors: S. Kaufman, R. Welton,

R. Gonzalez, E. Bever

Minutes of January 30, 2004
Correction: M.S. degree (not M.A.) in Accounting. Minutes were approved as corrected.
[Note: an additional correction was received after the meeting from Nancy Sacks who had requested
input and suggestions for next year’s Common Hours. ]
Report from the Senate Chair, K. Velsor:

The Executive Committee met with Dr. Butts to discuss two items, faculty salary discrepancies and

land use.
Salary discrepancies: Assistant Professor shows a discrepancy of $44,500 (41,400 low to 85,900 high
— college-wide)
Associate Professor ranges from 50,000 to 85,000 — a discrepancy of $35,000.
Full Professor ranges from 59,000 to 96,000 -- a $37,000 discrepancy.

It was agreed to form a small committee to look at the data with four categories for comparison:

Time on campus, rank, gender and race.
Discussion:
We need to consider the weight of the market and longevity as determinants of salary over a period of
several years.
It was mentioned again that lights in front of the parking lot have been out for some time now.
Regarding land use — a video presentation and information about what is going on — will be made
available to the faculty.
Report from Academic V.P., L. Cox:
1. Dr. Janice Haynie was introduced as our new Vice President for Student Affairs —. She will meet
with different departments to see how to incorporate students into campus life.
2. Salary issue is an important one — increases anxiety about morale or decreases morale. Ways to
address the issues include departmental market demands, among other reasons. In the
consideration of salaries, the committee will be looking for floor and midpoint levels for the
campus. We need to be sure that reasons for the disparity is understood. Nobody wants to be
the lowest-paid on campus.
3. DSI money is done as a percentage but is a tiny amount relative to what is necessary on campus.
4. NCATE - This will be exciting work to allow us to look at some neglected areas. ALL faculty
need to be involved. We’ll have to live with the results for a long time.
Middle States Review report is coming up with a small report due in April on administrative areas.
Middle States will be in Spring 2006, and NCATE will be in Fall 2006.
3" report due - Mission Review II — how we articulate with two-year colleges & this will have an
impact on how we do general education on campus.

We will have an Honors Program in the Fall.

Scheduling — interesting additions of times and specific courses, with flexibility, e.g., 2-credit

courses, but no changes in the overall M-W, T-Th scheduling. We’ll see if students do or do
not like the few MWF offerings. CAP will be making announcements.
Discussion was held.
Report on N.Y.S. Compensation Plan by Ms. Kumar, Account Executive for Nassau County:
A quick overview of tax-deferred accounts — key focus of putting money is to reduce liabilities.
deferred compensation plan 457B plan in addition to pension, — an added benefit to all
employees, has been available since 1985 — six billion dollars now in accounts.
403B plan is now also available. Several benefits of NY Deferred savings presented.
Booklets are available. Questions were taken.

NYS

Report from the Campus police by Mike Yanniello:
Distribution of campus safety guide with thanks to faculty for being supportive.
Enormous successes in security on campus — commitment to a way of doing business on campus that
is different from the past

We have the lowest rate of crime of any of the SUNY campuses — Old Westbury is a safe place to
send sons and daughters, a major concern of parents. Finally have some regular money to
function and might look more like the other SUNY departments.
Officers have more to do than before.
Arming the officers and closing the campus to outsiders have helped the authority of campus
security.
Students complained that they cannot park in the circles around the dorms — so the department is

putting up parking meters outside the dorms for short-term parking.

A new student handbook is available.
FBI — campuses are seen as “soft targets,” which is the reason for an orange alert and a crime alert,
primarily for diligence and knowledge about ours and other schools.
Alcohol and visitation policy — more campuses are instituting the tougher policies of SUNY.
Thanks again to the faculty for support.
Discussion:
When there are sexual harassment charges, the Chief assumes complainant is correct. Method is to
send it through the affirmative action office — there is a full, documented process to handle
each case.
Arrest policy was changed from an overnight in jail to an “appearance ticket” for a misdemeanor

offense. The only time security has sent someone to jail was in a domestic violence or
habitual offender case — only 2 or 3 since the policy was initiated in 2001.

Felony offenses are brought by other law enforcement agencies.

CAP proposal discussed by Elizabeth Ewen:
Resolution to consider an Honors Program is attached to the minutes — a pilot program will start in
the Fall.
CAP wants the Senate to approve the Honors pilot program to begin this Fall.
Discussion:
Honors would not replace the major. Business, Humanities and others discussed this. We need the
Honors Program as an innovative program for recognition and for students who need more
enrichment, and for faculty to teach courses they might not be able to teach in their regular
teaching program.

Principle is to begin with two courses in the Fall, and build from there. The question was “Where are
the resources?”
Discussion of percentage of undergraduate courses for the honors course-load.
Director or Assistant Director — business curricula needs to be changed to reflect the change that
already took place. [Since this statement needs clarification, would the person who made the
point please make a correction at the Mar 26 Senate meeting? — EL].
Question of what students would have to do to qualify for the program or to get into an honors class.
Answer: An Honor Society 3.5 average is required. However, a grace period of a semester
could permit students with a 3.2 average, along with letters of recommendations from
teachers, to get into the program.
If an Honors student goes below the 3.2, there would be a probationary period and an effort by

professors and student to deal with the problem.

Honors would have to be a two-tier program — one tier a 4-yr “Honors Graduate” or, a transfer
student could go with a course-by-course program beginning with the junior year and
graduate with an “Honors Associate.”
March 26 there will be an open meeting to discuss the specifics of the program, in B-134 at 10 am
(also a Senate meeting day).
Generative program — can use to ask for funding and to seek other opportunities for Honors students
(maybe some financial or other remuneration) until it becomes full-blown program.
A motion by Jill Edelson was seconded to approve the Honors Program Proposal. The motion passed
by a vote of 16 for, 1 opposed, no abstentions.
South African Appeal report by Becke Kalmans:
Background of Presidential Development grant to go to South Africa. PES Club efforts to send
computers were derailed by 9-11 and for personal reasons.
Now, a used computer center is set up at the same school with which we had established
communication of Bantu Education Fund (teachers, principals, grassroots group with offices
here).
Project has been extended to build a Health Education Center and students want to raise funds.
Students in 3“ World Political Economy class focus on South Africa/ HIV AIDS project.
Month after Spring break — students will be fund-raising, and ask for faculty support. Already
alumni, staff and others have contributed to a

raffle.

We haven’t had an initiative like the fund-raising concert for quite awhile and it is supported at this
point by the (SGA [David and Baxter], PES Club, the Old Westbury Alumni Association and
some fraternities).
South African musicians with P. Simon’s Graceland band, Hugh Masakela’s band, lead vocalist in

“The Lion King” are also performing.
Friday, April 16 is the event, coincidentally the 10" year anniversary of democracy in S. Africa, and
“Youth Day” in South Africa.
The body voted to extend the meeting time by 5 more minutes.
New business
Joe Conforti proposed that the Senate inform Mr. Kimmins that several conditions are inadequate —
lights out for more than a week, salt and sand is messy and the campus seems dismal and
dark. This is important for morale and retention. Kate Velsor will convey this message.
Jill Adelson reported that lights at the two entrances still are out.
Chris Hobson drew attention to the ATM machine that has been out of order since January.

Eloise Linger reported that several donations of checks have been received and will be deposited this
week for the Faculty Fund.

April 16 — Zenaida Madurka has organized a conference on Pablo Neruda at Old Westbury with the

possibility of several conference participants coming from Chile. The conference is mostly in
Spanish and will be held in the Multi-purpose room of the Student Union. It was noted that
the same day is another Faculty Senate meeting day and the day of the South Africa
fundraising concert.

The meeting was adjourned at 2:40.

Respectfully submitted,

Eloise Linger, Secretary-Treasurer and Senator for PES