Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                                         Friday, December 18, 2015


Senators Present: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding),  Thomas Lilly
(Vice Chair/PEL), Yogesh More (Secretary/Treasurer/Math/CIS), Werner
Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian), Minna Barrett (University Senator),
Kathleen Greenberg (At Large Rep. to EC/Senator at Large), Nicole
Sieben (Senator At-Large), Shalei Simms (Univ. Senator Alternate),
Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Laura
Anker (First Year Experience), Emma Antoban (Library), Jeffry D’Amico
(Accounting), Yu Lei (MMF), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education),
Blidi Stemn (Childhood Education), Lauren Foxworth (Exceptional
Education), Shaadi Mehr (Biological Studies), Young-Joo Kim (Chemistry
& Physics), Margaret Torrell (English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Maureen
Dolan (Mathematics & CIS), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Sarah Smith (
Public Health), Laura Limonic (Sociology), Chris Hobson (ARPT Comm.),
Frank Sanacory (CAP Comm.), Jacob Heller (FRR Comm.), Amanda Frisken
(GenEd Com.), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLR Comm.).

Senators Absent: Lingxiang Li (Senator At-Large), Manya Mascareno
(Senator At-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman
(Professional), Sujani Reddy (American Studies), Fernando Guerrero
(Modern Languages), Patty Harris (Visual Arts), Zenaida Madurka
(HLCC).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan
(Provost/AVP), Wayne Edwards (VP Students Affairs), Jishan Zhu (Dean,
SOB), Nancy Brown (Dean, SOE).

Visitors Present: Anthony Barbera (Assistant VP, Academic Affairs ),
Jamie Dresher (Assistant Director, CSL&I), Omar Estrada Torres (Dean
of Students), Peter Ikeler (APC/Sociology), Jerilyn Marinan (Career
Planning), Nicole Miller-Struttmann (Biology), Lorenz Neuwirth
(Psychology), Cristina Notaro (Assistant Dean, SAS), Caroline Sawyer
(H&P), Geta Techanie (Chair, Math/CIS), Duncan Quarless (Chemistry).

I.    Call to Order: 12:35 pm

II.   Approval of the Minutes of December 4, 2015

      Faculty Senate approved the minutes unanimously by voice vote.

1II.  Faculty Senate Chair’s Report

This week I met with Arthur Angst regarding the Scantron machine. We
were told that any purchase over $25,000.00 has to go out to bid. The
Scantron Committee put together a Scope of Work and sent it to Mr.
Angst to put it to bid. If we cannot procure it this way Dr.
O’Sullivan will put it in the budget for Fall 2016.

RABPC met yesterday. The committee discussed SUNY EXCELS and the need
to integrate the EXCEL’s matrix into the Strategic Plan of 2010, which
ran through 2015. SUNY EXCELS can serve as a basis for updating the
Strategic Plan. Any change in the Plan and any updates will need to
come to the Faculty Senate for review.

Len Davis gave a report on the Expenditures Budget. This part of the
budget shows a deficit of $4,849,800. The College receives rental
income from Trainer House at the rate of $189,000 a year and Summer
Session Revenue was $1,000,000. In addition the rental of other
facilities provides further income that supports the short fall in the
budget by the enrollment shortfall we suffered this year.

We need to make sure that all eligible students apply for graduation.
Many do not know that they must apply, that it is not automatic. We
need to make sure that seniors understand that they are required to
apply, or they will not be able to graduate on time.

The Executive Committee met and discussed changes to the Social
Justice resolution. The EC prepared a set of varied but commonly used
definitions of social justice. Please distribute widely and discuss in
departments.

IV. President’s Report

The President was not in attendance and there was no report provided.

V.  Provost’s Report

We are working on submitting our Middle States Periodic Report and we
want to present it in a timely manner. Dr. O’Sullivan thanked Jacob
Heller and Anthony Barbera for working diligently on this report to
ensure that it will be completed on time by June 1st, 2016.

Another report in preparation at this time is from the Applied
Learning Campus-wide team. Please make sure that your department
cooperates with the requests about Applied Learning so that we can
complete the initial phase of the report and send it to the Vice
Chancellor’s Office.

Dr. Butts has agreed to temporarily rescind the College’s housing
policy for new First Time to College and Transfer students.  Students
who entered the College in Fall 2015 and live in on-campus housing,
but fall short of a 2.0 grade point average in their first semester,
will be allowed to return to campus housing for the Spring 2016
semester. This is contingent upon The Faculty submitting an
intervention plan to support those students with early warning and
academic counseling and support.

The plan should be sent for review to Dr. Edwards who has been
designated as the point person for implementation. We require, by
early January, a list of students who have not attained the 2.00 GPA
so that faculty can follow them more closely and so that Dr. Edwards
and I (Patrick O’Sullivan) can provide a report to the President.

Dr. Edwards added that while such students will have an opportunity to
remain in campus housing during the Spring 2016 semester, we still
must help those students now. If they end up with a cumulative GPA
below 2.0 at the end of Spring 2016, they will be required to leave
the dorms for Fall 2016.

Dr. Sullivan thanked The Faculty for the contributions in Fall 2015
and wishes us all a good holiday season.

       VI.    New Business

Presentation of the MS in Literacy (Frank Sanacory, Chair of CAP)

This degree prepares teachers to teach Literacy in Adolescent, Middle
Childhood, or High School Programs. The CAP Committee believes this is
a course of study for which there is a real need across Long Island
and in the Metropolitan area. There are not enough faculty members in
the pipeline to teach it, and a percent of those teaching it are not
certified to do so. Private colleges have many students taking this
course of study and we would be the only public institution on Long
Island offering this Masters Degree. We have already five or six
overlapping courses in the current masters programs, so resource needs
are mitigated by the fact that we already offer some of the necessary
courses. The CAP Committee recommends that The Faculty accept the
degree offering. The earliest it can be offered will be Fall 2017.

A Resolution was offered to accept the program and a motion made and
seconded to vote on the resolution. A voice vote resulted in approval
without dissent.

      ●    Revision of the Bylaws (Jacob Heller)

This is a proposed revision of the Bylaws, which must be reviewed
periodically, preferably every five years. This review was initiated
by a Bylaws Review Committee and by the Faculty Rights and
Responsibilities Committee. This formal comprehensive review began in
2011 or 2012. Some amendments to the Bylaws were presented to The
Faculty and were passed by it in the summer of 2014. What was left to
complete is what is being presented at this point for the advice and
consent of the body.

Werner Sbaschnik, Chair of the Nomination and Elections Committee,
will send all recommendations to The Faculty for paper vote as
revisions may be approved by the Senate.

In 2011 we had a set of 34 issues. These were distributed to the
Senate for approval March 2012. The current proposed revisions where
developed from that set. These current revisions do not address all 34
suggestions. Early this fall, as a chair of the FR&R Committee, I
(Jacob Heller) submitted the Annual Report which included the
rationale for the ongoing Bylaws revisions started late in 2014. The
material presented currently addresses the first priorities. These
follow from the work of the Faculty Rights and Responsibilities
Committee in the Annual Report, which specifically outlined the plan
and the processes. These priorities include: the need for effective
faculty governance; exclusive faculty authority over the curriculum:
specification of separation between administrative and faculty
prerogatives, clarification of faculty committee structure and voting
rights, overlapping mandates and representation within the college.
There is a list of members of FR&R members from the most recent review
round in 2014 and the current members of this committee involved in
the review. There is representation from all departments and schools
with 12 people serving at this time.

We started with the premise of the revision that began in 2011 and
later confirmed by the FR&R Committee in 2014. We undertook
significant work in 2014-15 reviewing the responsibilities of
committee chairs, committee responsibilities, creating a table of
contents, justification of the format, but at some point we reached a
decision to concentrate on individual sections beginning with standing
committees.  All committee chairs were contacted for input and in the
fall of 2015 we established a set of coherent principles, and
clarified and simplified the language.

The first set of revisions was presented on December 4, 2015. We
standardized committee chairs’ responsibilities in terms of reporting.
We changed the required submission date to the spring of the academic
year in which a chair is elected rather than to wait until the fall
following the service year.

      There are many proposed changes to the standing committees.
These changes are based on changes in SUNY standards and processes
such as Seamless Transfer, which initiated changes to the Gen. Ed.
Committee. These changes occurred over the course of four years of
Faculty Senate operation beginning with me, and then through Duncan’s
and Kate’s service. In conversation with the General Education
Committee and its leadership, the members concurred with what is being
proposed now.

Questions following Dr. Heller‘s review of the events of Bylaws review
included concerns about the role of administration in faculty
committees, questions about General Education in general, as well as
questions about which faculty members should or could qualify as
Domain Representatives, and which departments should have jurisdiction
over proficiencies and college-wide requirements. Dr. Heller
volunteered to distribute a Word version of the document so faculty
could red line it and provide language and other input into the
ongoing process.  Jacob Heller requested that comments or language
revisions be sent to him, and he will present them at a future Senate
meeting. Action is tabled.

        VII.    Announcements

Please inform Jamie B. Dresher about any workshops, seminars or
educational programs you have planned so it may be placed on the
Leadership Development Calendar and students who attend that event may
receive credit for their contributions.

The Faculty Equity Salary Committee met yesterday and had a productive
meeting. The committee will meet again in on January and will hope to
make a recommendation to the Senate and the Provost by February 15,
2016.


The chair announced next Faculty Senate meeting will be on January 29,
2016 and wished all a happy holidays.


VIII. Adjournment at 2:24 pm, December 18, 2015.