>

Library Funding: presentation by Meredith Butler (Library Director and Dean, University at
Albany) and Christopher Brennan, University Operations Committee (Librarian, Brockport).
Data presented on long-term consequences of underfunding SUNY Libraries. Inflation rate for
research journals increased 8-10% annually since 1998. Given the increased costs for all library
materials and acquisitions, libraries on many SUNY campuses are at crisis point. (Note: among the
comprehensive colleges, library expenditures have decreased most dramatically on Old Westbury
and Oswego campuses, declining 30.20% and 20.10%, respectively, for 1998-2002. See attached.)

> — Strategic Energy Issues in SUNY: presentation by Maureen Dolan, University Operations

Committee (Old Westbury). Energy costs comprise an increasing proportion of SUNY’s Core
Instruction Budget and up to 50% of campus OTPS; there is increased volatility of energy prices

due to impacts of deregulation. SUNY and other state agencies are mandated to achieve 2005 and

2010 targets for energy efficiency in buildings and equipment, renewable energy and green building

construction. Through more aggressive pursuit of grants administered by NYSERDA, funded

through Systems Benefit Charge (user fees collected by order of PSC), opportunities exist for

SUNY to become a national leader in energy conservation, renewable energy and sustainability
initiatives. Whitepaper on energy (final report) to be presented by Dolan at Spring Plenary.

>

COMMITTEE REPORTS and RESOLUTIONS

Executive Committee resolution in support of Chancellor King passed by the University Senate:

Discussion: in January, unsubstantiated charges against the Chancellor, from anonymous sources,
appeared in media in Albany and elsewhere. The sense of the Senate was that some Trustees have
a history of maligning SUNY through tactics such as recently used. The Senate acknowledged

King’s leadership, vision for excellence, and willingness to work with faculty through the Senate.
Resolutions from Awards Committee passed by the University Faculty Senate:
Revision in criteria for Chancellor’s Awards, to preclude nomination of faculty already holding

Distinguished Faculty Rank. Restriction of multiple designations of Distinguished Faculty Rank.
Only one Chancellor’s Award can be awarded to a faculty member within a ten-year period.

Resolution from Operations Committee passed by University Faculty Senate:
Given concerns about declining ratio of full-time tenure-track and non-tenure track and adjunct
faculty, the UFS requests that campuses be encouraged to develop ratio of FT tenure-track to nonTT adjunct faculty, with these ratios and timetables part of MRII and reflected in campus MOU’s.

Faculty Evaluation of Administrators, report presented by Governance Committee:
Beyond the Chancellor’s regular review of campus presidents, the evaluation by faculty of
administrators below the rank of president can lead to greater accountability and transparency.
Academic Bill of Rights (attached):
Trustee Candace DeRussy has proposed that SUNY adopt “Academic Bill of Rights” supported

by Students for Academic Freedom. This bill stipulates that funds for student activities and guest

speakers are “fairly distributed to promote representation of diverse points of view”, and that “no
student is penalized or discriminated against for his or her political opinions”. The critique by
AAUP of this document is availablc at www.aaup.org/Issues/ABOR/aborintro2 htm.
ATTACHMENTS

Faculty Evaluation of Administrators (from Governance Committee)

Academic Bill of Rights (with DeRussy cover letter)

Data on University Library Expenditures, by campus (change from 1998-2002)
Resolutions from Awards Committee and Operations Committee

Respectfully submitted by Maureen Dolan, University Senator, 3/4/05

6