STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK/COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
Faculty Senate Meeting/Friday, March 28, 2014
Faculty Senate Chair’s Report
A. Outstanding/Immediately Pending Items
1. Resolution: Formal Curricular Integration of “Social Justice Component” in Academic
Programs. “Will of Senate” revise the resolution to send this back to CAP as the means
to facilitate further discussion? EC to offer a revised version?
2. Ballots: Bylaws (current Article I “electronic voting” and Article VI “regular elections”
ballot out)
3. Ongoing Discussion of GE: (compliant with beauty that is veiled) (has a related
Middle States concern)
A. Concern about clutter (1): separate GE program from Institutional Requirements
(e.g. WAC, First Year)
B. Concern about clutter (2): consider faculty resolution to remove dormant courses
from GE (2 yr period?)
C. Concern about lack of clarity, central purpose and impact: revisit possibly
removing Diversity domain from GE (define it more clearly and make it an
institutional requirement?)
D. Concern about rigor: error on the side of more rigor not less where applicable? (for
the required basic communication; for the two competencies – information
management and critical-thinking; some uncertainty about mathematics)
E. Concern about progress and gauge: ongoing development – set some goals and
timelines (including an introductory paragraph that better captures the adorning
values of our GE program).
4. ST overview (Update): plan for ST report (compiling: report from GEC and CAP;
blog/general comments from faculty; campus representatives’ reports from SUNY
Commons) Target April 18th meeting for formal presentation of report to senate.
5. FRRC presentation for April 18th (include tentative plans for bylaws revisions)
6. Twilight on RABPC? (has a related Middle States Concern) (working position with
President – assured that will soon be resolved) [IT related budget inquiries (instructional
difficulties mentioned in multiple forums – e.g. TLRC roundtable, discussions of the
senate EC, discussions with the Provost and President, including College Webpage],
Start-Up NY campus guidelines. (need to gauge the senate’s/faculty’s intention/will
here)
7. “Climate” Resolution (concern that the administration advances a generally
constructive environment in the campus that supports the academy) (“culture”,
“communication” and “cooperation”/collaboration)
8. Residency requirements - Administration is currently deliberating – at some point
information will be presented to faculty/senate for consultative review
9. Scheduling and Common Hour (receive some communication for consultative review
by the faculty)

B. Systems and Processes (Update)
1. Master Scheduling (Moving to a new system, CollegeNet/Current system is a multipurpose system): A. Sartakov will pilot group training (3-28-14)
2. Ray Maggiore & Tim McGarry – Work orders and capital projects, status update on
existing projects (4-18-14)
3. Bylaws Review. (Operational Provisions that leads to improved structural and functional
integrity) (Review both Structural Integrity and Functional Efficiency) Anticipated
response deadline: 3-14-14 (Postpone reporting until next senate meeting – 4-18-14)
C. Other pending governance items
Scheduling for Committee Reporting
Spring 2014 Schedule of Meetings (TLRC and APC reported in the fall 2013)
Jan. 17 - Special Senate/Faculty Meeting (Seamless Transfer - GEC)
Feb. 7 - Full Faculty Meeting (CAP)
Feb. 28 - Senate Meeting (ARPT)
Mar. 28 - Senate Meeting (SLC and FJC today)
Apr. 18 - Senate Meeting (FRRC - confirmed)
May 9 - Full Faculty Meeting (FUAC, tentative)
May 23 - Senate Meeting (ASC, confirmed and RABPC)