11. Promised to work with all faculty; stated that he had unyielding
commitment to the college, students, and faculty.
Report of VP Budget and Finance:

L. Davis

SUNY projecting very large deficits for next several years, and is asking
campuses to make budgets flat or less than flat. Proposed increase of

$500.00 in tuition across the board, but if this does not go through then

there will be significant budget deficit. EOP and TAP will probably be
restored. VP distributed a set of handouts (attached). In response to a

question about the administrative imbalance, he responded that this was
partly due to student enrollment: we do not generate enough income to
move administrative lines from IFR & DFR lines as other forms of
compensation.

BPC Report: T. Delgiudice
Wireless networking for AV is being installed. Other wiring projects have
started as well. Planning cannot start until Legislature appropriates
money for projects; money cannot be spent until it has been allocated.

This is the reason that all the AV projects have been delayed.

The BPC is organizing a Strategic Planning Initiative 2005-2010;
documentation attached.

Mission Review II, Middle States, NCATE etc

require all faculty to work together.
this effort.

Asked for support of all faculty for

Motion to extend meeting to 3:00 J. Edelson; C. Hobson, second)
New Business:

1. M. Foglino will submit student resolution on Mission Review II.
2. A. Ebrahimi announced first TLC meeting of the semester, Feb 11°".
First speaker, R. Mukherji, to speak about her research on
South Asian Immigrants in New York City. Encouraged people to attend.
3. Senate Chair: Soliciting nominations for senator-at-large ( to replace S.
Mahmoud’s position)
4. Moment of silence observed for performer Ossie Davis, who passed away
this morning.
5. At 8:30 p.m. February 15 there will be a dinner reception for N.Sacks at
SU Coffee Shop.

Motion to adjourn: J. Edelson; C. Hobson, second.

Meeting adjourned at 3: 05.
Respectfully submitted,

B. Runi Mukherji, Secretary.