STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
                           COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
                        Full Faculty Meeting Minutes

                          Friday, February 26, 2016


I. Call to Order:  12:40 pm

II. Approval of the Minutes of October 9, 2015

    • Minutes were approved with voice vote, without dissent.

III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report (Kathleen Velsor)

    • President cannot attend due to laryngitis.

    • Executive Committee (EC) of the Faculty Senate met with Patrick
      O'Sullivan to make sure faculty input is solicited for the college’s
      submissions to the Performance Improvement Plan submissions. Last year
      the College submitted only three proposals, only one of which got
      funded, for $500,000.

    • The salary compression committee continues work on identifying faculty
      who need salary increases.

    • Status of the Scantron Class Climate purchase: Jacob Heller is working
      on this, it is still on-going.

    • The EC sent a letter to William Kimmins (Assistant to the President)
      regarding START-UP NY. EC was concerned about lack of faculty
      involvement in the process by which the college selected an off-campus
      location to house potential START-UP NY partners. EC and Kimmins
      agreed to work jointly to review potential partners, giving special
      attention ensuring the aims and values of partnering businesses align
      with the educational mission of the college.



IV. Provost’s Report (Patrick O’ Sullivan)

    • Prof. Jasmine Mitchell (American Studies) earned a career advancement
      fellowship from Woodrow Wilson Foundation. She will be paid a research
      stipend.

    • Our submission to SUNY Excels (an accountability program started by
      Chancellor Zimpher) was approved by SUNY Board and Chancellor Zimpher.
      The SUNY Excels Performance Improvement program includes $18 million
      available competitively to the SUNY campuses. We submitted three
      proposals; our only winner was CIO Evan Kobolakis’s submission on the
      Digital Campus. We will be awarded $500,000 (we don't have it yet) but
      requested $4.7 million. Other campuses wrote successful proposals on
      early warning, advisement, retention efforts, etc. – these are all
      things we do at our college. I hope we will compete more effectively
      in the second round.

    • Mike Kinane: On the State budget, there is very little money for SUNY.
      Little for capital maintenance. We are seeking funds for a redesign or
      renovation of the Natual Sciences Building, and we are doing a study
      to get an initial cost estimate. One initial proposal has an estimated
      cost of $27 million. A less ambitious but acceptable redesign would
      cost $15 million. The more ambitious plan brings computer science into
      the Natural Sciences Building. Both redesigns focus on improving
      laboratory facilities for both teaching and research. President Calvin
      O’Butts III and Mr. Kinane are lobbying for funding. They met with
      Senator Marseleno (a former science teacher), who supports STEM. The
      Senator indicated he supports plans to redesign of the Natural Science
      Building.

    • On March 27 Bookhaven National Lab (BNL) will host an event that is
      part of President Barack Obama’s initiative, “My Brother’s Keeper.”
      9th and 10th graders will go to Brookhaven National Labs. Prof. Duncan
      Quarless (Chemistry and Physics) will be on the panel, along with VP
      of Con Edison, and BNL scientists. President Obama will not be in
      attendance.  President Butts had contacts within the Department of
      Energy, who then connected BNL and SUNY College at Old Westbury for
      this event.  On April 19th students will come to the college.

    • Student Opinion Survey Spring 2015 results are available. Departments
      should discuss the results. The Provost also handed out student
      responses for each department. He said that we are not doing enough
      with the data.

    • We are in the process of updating and reviewing the 2010-2015
      Strategic Plan: of the five goals (academic, enrollment, retention,
      branding, financial stability), each had a subset of objectives, and a
      subset of strategies. First, we are determining where the college is
      with respect to the goals the college set in 2010. Secondly, we need
      to align the Strategic Plan with categories in SUNY Excels. SUNY
      Excels has five categories: Access, Completion, Success, Inquiry and
      Engagement. EC and RABC are engaged in this process. This will go into
      the Middle States report, which is due June 2016.

    • Senator Comments:

         o Governor Cuomo approved funding for local colleges, but besides
           the Digital Campus proposal, why are we not getting such
           funding? For example, Farmingdale received $6.6 Million to
           Create Infrastructure, Transportation and Security Center at
           Farmingdale State College. Nassau Community College and Stony
           Brook are getting grants for minorities in technology, which
           Obama has set aside $40 million.

         o Second round of SUNY Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) is in
           Governor's budget, but we do not know if he will allocate it.
           SUNY will find out the answer in April, and then the College
           will have a short time to submit a proposal. We will be asking
           faculty via an email survey for what they are doing that can be
           supported by PIP money. This can bring into our PIP proposal the
           nascent Institute for Social Justice, as well as Ed Bever's
           Science Summer Institute (SSI). We need promote the SSI. There
           is very strong demand from upstate students who return downstate
           during the summer and take classes. Prof. Judith Lloyd
           (Chemistry and Physics) felt overwhelmed with the work,
           administrative support, and lab support that running the summer
           courses required. So Prof. Ed Bever (History and Philosophy),
           with the Provost and Presidents’ approval, took oversight of the
           planning of the SSI. We will hire adjuncts to teach the science
           courses, hire a secretary/coordinator, and a marketing campaign
           for the SSI.

V. First Year Student Support Initiative (Laura Anker)

    • Introduced Bonny Eannon (director of CALL), who is now the Associate
      Director of First Year Experience (FYE).

    • We have been trying to change for a long time the dorm GPA policy for
      freshman and first semester transfer students. This initiative is
      conjunction with Cris Notaro and Student Affairs.

    • FYE set up our own early warning system. We are unable to get a list
      of faculty who teach first year students, but hope the Registrar
      Patricia Smith and computing services will help.

    • Senator comment: It is difficult for faculty to figure out who is a
      first year student because the Banner system is set up poorly. Laura’s
      response: We are trying to rectify the situation.

    • College courses in high school don't seem to predict student success
      in college. It seems those courses are not very rigorous.

    • Our program provides services for students who have GPA below 2.0. In
      January, we contacted students below a 2.0 GPA and advised them. We
      meet regularly with students, hold workshops on study skills (open to
      all students but required for students in academic jeopardy).

    • Campus Center H-200 hosts Liberal Arts tutoring center. We wanted
      tutoring centers in dorms but Wi-Fi is limited in the dorms. Evan
      Kobolakis (CIO) responded, “Wireless will be available in general
      lounges in the dorms in two months, and dorms will be fully wireless
      by September.”

    • Monitored study sessions on the weekend around Midterm Week.

    • Students’ connection to faculty is what keeps them here, so please
      help them.

    • 20 out of about 400 first year students have GPA below 2.0. Well it
      started with 84, but due to winter classes some were able to raise GPA
      above 2.0, and the number reduced to 20.

    • Senator comment: Faculty in Residence Hall program, started by Wayne
      Edwards, is a good idea, but has not been well attended by students.
      The students who showed up were mostly pulled in by RAs.

    • FYE needs more full time faculty members from each department to teach
      courses in FYE.

VI. 50th Anniversary Celebration (Mike Kinane)
    • 50th Anniversary event: The College will invite alumni and former
      faculty for a panel discussion about history and mission of SUNY Old
      Westbury. 200-300 people. There may be two events.
    • Athletic Department will have first induction into our College’s Hall
      of Fame: Pamela Robinson '11 leading scorer for Basketball.
    • Alumni Recognition event will be on May 10. Fifty alumni will be
      recognized.
    • Mike Kinane thanked Zenaida Madurka, Laura Anker, Minna Barrett,
      Robert Hoyte, and Judith Lloyd.
VII. Applied Learning (Minna Barrett)

      • Phase One of our plan has been submitted to SUNY. We list
        everything at our college that meets applied learning requirements.
        Courses that did not provide syllabi, or for which syllabi did not
        meet applied learning standards, were not included. But faculty may
        submit a revised syllabus in the second round (due April 15)

      • We will make a template of an acceptable syllabus.

      • In Phase Two, we need to decide how the college will support
        applied learning.

      • By the end of the process, we have to decide if applied learning
        will be a college graduation requirement.

VIII. Academic Standards (Minna Barrett)

      • Academic Practices Committee (APC) sets academic standards. APC
        needs to set criteria for honors college. Faculty have
        jurisdiction.

IX. Registration for Independent Study (Kathleen Greenberg)

      • Requests for independent study made after add drop date have been
        denied by Dean Barbara Hillery, because said found that often
        students were registering for independent studies late in the
        semester (e.g. April) and she felt that there is no way they can do
        4 credits of work in the remaining time. The APC should study the
        matter and take a formal position.

X. SUNY Old Westbury Ad in Newsday (Kathleen Greenberg)

      • Kathleen Greenberg read aloud the ads of different colleges
        appearing in the February 21st issue of Newsday, in a section
        titled the Presidents’ Forum. This section consisted of promotional
        material submitted by various colleges, and a statement from the
        president of each college. The ad for one college sought students
        who think big and dream big, and included a photo of a white male
        standing next to the Flat Iron building in New York City. The ad
        for a second college promoted the diversity of its students, and
        included a photo of a black person wearing lab googles, in the
        setting of a science lab. Kathleen asked, “Based on these
        descriptions, guess the colleges being advertised.” The surprising
        answers: SUNY Old Westbury submitted the Flat Iron building ad,
        while Stony Brook University the submitted the ad promoting
        diversity of its student body.
      • 9,000 flyers advertising SUNY OW Open House have been printed. The
        only image on the flyer is the white male student standing next to
        the Flat Iron building. We don’t mean to demean or disrespect the
        white male student (who is actually a SUNY OW student), however,
        the ad does not reflect the diversity of SUNY OW. The marketing
        team took photos of students of other genders and ethnicities – why
        aren’t those photos being used?
      • Minna Barrett read a draft of a letter the EC wrote and is
        considering sending to Newsday as a letter to the editor or an
        opinion piece. Ashley Lien, Lisa Whitten, and William Gillis
        volunteered to revise it.
      • Senator Comments:
            o  Last year in the Faculty Senate, faculty raised concerns on
              the branding campaign. Have these concerns been noted by
              those in charge of the marketing of our college? Is there any
              oversight from the faculty on what Public Relations send out?
              Underrepresented minorities may be drawn to ads that colleges
              big dreams and big thinking, not necessarily to a college
              seeking minorities.
            o Our branding campaign says "Own your future.” What does that
              mean?
            o Rather than send a letter to Newsday in response to an ad our
              college submitted, invite Newsday to come to our 50th
              anniversary event and do a story on our college.


XI. Announcements

      • TLRC and UUP will host a workshop “Getting to Tenure and Beyond”
        workshop on March 4

      • Maureen Dolan: New Initiative on Quantitative Reasoning across the
        Curriculum, similar to Writing across the Curriculum. Quantitative
        reasoning is not limited to math, but in other disciplines too:
        chemistry/biology history/philosophy, teacher education: math as a
        language requiring translation, sustainability. Handout summarized
        the long history at OW of quantitative reasoning across the
        disciplines.

      • Print Shop is currently understaffed – it has only one staff
        member. This has forced reduced hours or closures. We need a fully
        staffed print shop.

XII. Adjournment: 2:48 pm.