SUNY/COLLEGE at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting

Friday, December

13, 2002

12:45 p.m-2:30 p.m.

Room C 102 Academic Village
Present: R. Colén-Urban, K. Velsor, M. Crocitto, K. Wood, R.J. Edelson, C. Franco, I. Ahmed,
A. Martinez, B. Joseph, M. Metlay, B. Hillery, J. King, H. Lewittes, G. Snedeker
Visitors:

1.

R. Welton, N. Sacks, M. Kinane, R. Brown, L. Davis

Approval of Minutes for Friday, November 15, 2002
Approval was deferred until the next meeting. There was no quorum of senators present to
approve the minutes of the previous meeting on November 15, 2002.
However, because there was no call for a quorum, the meeting continued.

2.

Report from Chair of Faculty Senate (R. Col6n-Urban)
The President canceled the scheduled November 25, 2002 meeting of the Executive Committee
and the President. Three items on that agenda were the Senate’s position to encourage separate
consideration of the issues of merit and equity, budget allocations comparing our college with
four comparable SUNY campuses, and the issue of a reception for December graduates. These
questions remain unanswered.
A BPC report to Faculty Senate from Tom DelGuidice was distributed.
There was a request for a senator to serve on the awards committee. There must be senate
representation on the committee.
The Chair sent a get-well card to the president. The Senate unanimously approved expenditures
of a $100 donation in the President’s name to Long Island Food for Survival and a gift for a
staff member.
Last year Senate passed a resolution approving the naming and dedication of D-190 in honor of
Council Taylor. Senate approved the request of Dr. Onita Hicks that it take place as part of the
program at the Honors Convocation in April 2003.
Faculty were asked to house international students during the intersession.

3.

Report from AVP (Patrick O’Sullivan, Acting)
The merger of CIS with Business and Math is completed. The AVP thanked the CIS faculty for
their cooperation.
He distributed printed copies of an argument supporting a three-credit system, which had
already been distributed to CAP and all department chairs. The President will establish a task
force to make a recommendation on the merits of a three-credit system.
The AVP asked for sensitivity if students missed exams due to the impending transit strike. He
noted that each student has the right to request a make-up exam and suggested faculty follow
the recommendations of chair and use their discretion.

State institutions were mandated to cut 5% for the year, with 2 2% put into effect right now.
Academic Affairs handled it by reducing adjuncts by department. The AVP stated that this was
done fairly by working with department chairs. Cuts were made in most departments, with 1925 adjunct cuts across the board. Because cuts sometimes create students concerns about such
issues as their ability to graduate, faculty were asked not to alarm students.
Questions were raised by several senators about whether five recently terminated staff
members were escorted off campus by security guards and asked whether it is a policy or
practice to escort professionals off campus in such a manner. Len Davis and Patrick O’ Sullivan
stated that they had no knowledge or information about whether this had occurred and were
unaware of any such policy. The Senate agreed to make an official inquiry into this situation.
UUP

Report (C. Franco)

C. Franco inquired if the five positions eliminated were to reach the 5% mandated cuts. Len
Davis responded that they were part of a reorganization plan formulated before the mandate.
According to a conversation he had with B. Scheurman, we are the first school to lay off
people or cut courses. Another way would have been to offer an early retirement incentive. C.
Franco spoke with W. Kimmins who commented that we want to be prepared to have the
option of cutting people out. C. Franco will speak to the governor’s office regarding this
situation because of their commitment of no layoffs. The Board of Trustees canceled their
meeting with no budget recommendation, leaving it to the Division of Budget to develop a
budget. In contrast, CUNY trustees submitted a budget on time, with a requested 5.7%
increase. They requested new faculty lines; SUNY contends we do not need new faculty, but
they use formula where faculty are counted more than once. SUNY trustees have taken on side
issues such as requests that college presidents insure that leftist academics don’t take over
entire departments.
A UUP meeting is scheduled for Jan. 6 to devise a strategy to advocate for better budget such
as taking public attitude polls, starting an ad campaign, and visiting local legislators. NYSUT
raised money for this purpose, as they can’t use dues money for political action.
In response to questions, C. Franco commented that other colleges have cut travel money and
offered an early retirement incentive. When current contract expires as of June 30, it remains in
effect until a new one negotiated. However, we would not get any kind of location pay or
salary increase.
Senators raised questions about why classes were cut before final enrollment figures were in.
The Chair referred to the BPC report and asked Len Davis to share info about a meeting in
Albany with the Associate Vice Chancellor. He reported that we have been successful in
getting additional funds, having been subsidized $8 million since 2000. Due to 9/11 and other
circumstances, we have been informed that SUNY will continue to support us but not at past
levels. We are asked to examine our spending and return on operations. Our goals include:
1.
2.
3.

Increase enrollments; build academic and master’s degree programs
Enhance the quality image of the College.
Reach financial equilibrium by increasing enrollment and reducing expenditures.

Much of the focus of the five-year plan is to increase enrollment. The BAP basic formula for
all schools is enrollment driven along with geographic and other variables such as level of
courses. SUNY, depending on the mission of the school, adjusts these. The factor per student is

higher for graduate programs. Our smallness puts us at a disadvantage in terms of gaining
economies of scale. We have to become self-sufficient by a certain date. We did not anticipate
these mid-year cuts.
Some issues raised by senators included why classes were cut although our students register
late, how revenues generated by summer school are used, and developing a campaign to inform
legislators how cuts transfer into education quality. There were further questions as to why
cuts were made before a more complete picture about spring enrollments appeared, why some
key general education courses were already canceled, why the BPC committee was not
consulted, and whether sizeable raises were given to administrators when people are fired and
courses are cut. The executive committee will handle these issues.
Institutional Advancement R. Brown
R. Brown reported that as of 11/30/02, $101,000 has been raised with an additional $25,000 as

not yet recorded. The College has commitments for another $50,000. One is $25,000 from

Vytra Health Plans. They will offer a lecture series on campus on health-related topics, a full
scholarship for a student in the Health and Society program, and a wellness program. We are
planning a Vytra Health Day to market their brand and products. Vytra gains perceived
marketing value promote their products and brands on campus and among alumni. Another
$25,000 in unrestricted funds is from Audiovox. Our business students gain internships and a
corporate training program in which faculty will train local Audiovox employees. We also
have a three-year commitment of $10,000 per year from the Robert Plan Corp. to fund
scholarships. These qualify under Minorities Empire State honors matching program, so the
$30,000 will turn into $60,000. We exceeded last year’s fundraising goals by close to 100%.
This year we have a good chance to reach $300,000. Taste of Long Island netted $51,000 and
provided money to support another round of faculty grants for $25,000. Remaining funds will
go to the Presidential scholarship program; seven transfer students were funded with
scholarships last academic year. R. Brown is now an observer in the review process.
Scholarships are awarded end of each semester but allocated beginning of semester, so that
students maintain their performance. The funds raised by the Development office have funded
scholarships, faculty grants, the Wallace Art Gallery, and student exchange programs. On
March 12, two prominent health care attorneys will debate whether litigation has reduced
quality of health care. We hope to reach wide audience outside campus and that faculty and
students will attend.
In response to a question, R. Brown noted marketing does not involve selling of personal info
about faculty, staff, or students.
Announcements
Faculty were invited to and asked to announce an open house at the new day care center.
The meeting was adjourned at 2:30 p.m.