SUNY College at Old Westbury
Faculty University Awards Committee
2013-2014 Annual Report
April 14, 2014
Campus Notification: The campus received notification of the 2013-2014 series of Chancellor’s Awards for
Excellence by memorandum dated August 7, 2012 from Provost Dr. David Lavallee. For the current year the
college community was notified of the awards and nominations were solicited by memorandum dated October 8,
2013 from the Chair of the Faculty University Awards Committee (FUAC), Distinguished Teaching Professor
Robert Hoyte. This memorandum indicated a submission deadline of January 3, 2014. Also included was an
outline of campus policies and procedures as well as instructions for obtaining the official SUNY guidelines on
the web. Notification of the new Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Adjunct Teaching was received by the
campus in late August 2013. The committee judged there to be insufficient time to effectively participate in this
program by the stated first deadline of November 4, 2013. Participation was deferred to the 2014 program, for
which a campus announcement was made on March 7, 2014.
Campus Selection Committee: Consistent with SUNY guidelines the local selection committee, the FUAC, was
elected by the faculty and consisted of full-time faculty with considerable seniority. The committee was structured to
include the local Faculty Senate Chair, a student representative, and a member designated by the campus President.
The committee was supplemented by an ad hoc subcommittee consisting of eight members of the professional staff
so as to constitute the minimum of 50% representation required for the Excellence in Professional Service award, as
per SUNY guidelines. Members of the subcommittee were selected with assistance from the professional staff
representatives to the college’s Faculty Senate and the campus UUP chapter.
FUAC Members: Robert Hoyte, Chair, Martha Livingston, Fred Millan, Laura Anker (by phone), Ronald
Welton.
EIPS Subcommittee Members( ad hoc): John Butler, Becky Evans, Alonzo McCollum, , Rafat Sada, Sheila
Washington and Monika Wiebke.
Nominations: At the close of nominations at 12:00 noon January 6, 2014 (extended from 5:00 p.m. on January 3
due to a snow storm) two nominations had been received for the Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Professional
Service and one nomination for Distinguished Teaching Professor.
Evaluation Criteria: The criteria described in the SUNY guidelines for the Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in
Professional Service (EIPS) and for the Distinguished Teaching Professorship (DTP) were used without modification.
Materials: Because of the great variations in professional staff job characteristics and responsibilities materials
submitted in support of nominations may differ widely in applicability.
EIPS: The Committee conducted its review considering the following materials received from the candidates, as
applicable:
1. Updated Vita including campus and university service.
2. Official job description for the position held by the candidate.
3. Self-evaluation in which the candidate describes major aspects of their growth, accomplishments and
contributions to their department and the college. A statement that describes the candidate’s
philosophical approach to the position may also be included.
4. Representative Materials: The materials should provide documentation (substantive evidence) related to
the SUNY Selection Criteria. For example, innovative or unique materials developed by the candidate
relating to professional responsibilities. Special projects completed, etc.
5. Summary Evaluation forms completed by the candidate’s supervisor covering the last three years of
service.
1

6. Letter of recommendation from the candidate’s supervisor that directly addresses the candidate’s
suitability for the EIPS award.
7. Peer Letters of support from faculty or staff that address the candidate’s performance of professional
responsibilities.
8. External letters of support may be submitted, if the candidate has involvement in external professional
SUNY/non-SUNY organizations/associations.
9. If the candidate’s position requires direct interaction with or services to students, then letters of support
from former students may be included. Letters from students currently enrolled at the college may not
be included.
10. Summary evaluation, based on the above items, prepared by the nominator that presents an overall picture
of the candidate’s strengths for the EIPS award.
DTP: The Committee conducted its review considering the following materials received from the candidate.
1. Updated Curriculum Vita including campus and university service.
2. Self-evaluation by the candidate that addresses the following.
a. Teaching techniques and innovations.
b. Instructional and grading policy; how seriousness and high expectations are encouraged.
c. A record of inspiring and motivating students; achievements of graduates.
d. Special projects and involvements with students or groups; accessibility to students, services to
students.
e. How scholarship relates to teaching.
3. Course Syllabi.
4. Student evaluations of last three years.
5. Grading records and/or grading patterns for the last three years.
6. Internal peer letters on curriculum development, team teaching collaborations, scholarship and service.
7. External letters (DTP)
8. Letters from former students.
9. A summary presentation by the nominator that addresses the candidate’s outstanding teaching performance
and major achievements.
Meeting: January 13, 2014
It was confirmed that all 10 members present (6 ad hoc subcommittee members and 4 regular FUAC members
– Mr. Welton recused) had read the candidate's files and examined the materials submitted. A discussion of
strengths and weaknesses of the two nominees was held. Subsequently a secret ballot was taken to decide
which nominee to recommend for the Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Professional Service. The result of
the voting by those in attendance during this discussion was 6 votes for one nominee, 4 votes for the other
nominee and no abstentions. It was agreed that a subcommittee of members would prepare a draft
summary/recommendation report. This draft was circulated among the other committee members for comment
prior to being finalized and submitted to the Office of Academic Affairs on January 17, 2014.
The regular FUAC then proceeded to a discussion of the nominee for Distinguished Teaching Professor, The
nomination under consideration was a re-nomination from the 2012-2013 round in which the committee found
several deficiencies in the format and content of the file. It was agreed that the revised file submitted for the
current round was an improvement that presented the nominee’s qualifications in a much stronger and complete
manner. After discussion a secret ballot was held among the members in attendance. The result of the voting
was unanimous: 5 votes for approval, 0 votes against and no abstentions. The committee charged the Chair,
with assistance from Prof. Millan, to finalize the Nomination Abstract and supporting materials for submission to
the Office of Academic Affairs on January 17, 2014.

2