STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLLEGE 

AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, September 6, 2019

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location NSB: Sci-100



Minutes



Attendance

Senators Present:

Andrew Mattson (Chair), Dana Tomlin (Secretary/Treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parlamentarian/Math&CIS), Lina Gilic (Senator At-Large), Helidon Gjergji (Senator At-Large), John Estes (Senator At-Large), Runi Mukherji (Univ. Senator Alternate), John Kleinman (Professional) Bonnie Eannone (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Laura Anker (FYE), Linval Frazier/Roger Mayer (Acct), Sara Williamson (MMF), Blidi Stemn (Childhood Ed), Lisa Payton (AS), Jillian Nissen (Bio.Sci.), Deepa Jani (Eng), Jingyi Song (H&P), Veronica Dolar (PEL), Erin Toolis (Psych.), Chris Hartman (PH), Ryoko Yamamoto (Soc.), Eric Hagan/ (VA), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC)



Senators Absent:

Ashley R. Alvarado (SGA), Janay A Jackson (SGA), Jahvon Spencer-Newell (SGA), Linval Frazier/ (Accounting), Sara Williamson/Katarzina Platt (MMF), Xavier Marechaux (Adolescent Ed), Camille Jones (C&P), Zenaida Madurka/ (Modern Languages), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC)



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present:

Calvin Butts (President), Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Wayne Edwards (VP Advancement), Regina Scarbrough (VP Enrollment), Usama M. Shaikh (VP Student Affairs), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS), Raj Devasagayam (Dean, SOB), Nancy Brown (Dean, SOE)



			  0.	Meeting arrival and sign in	(12:20 p.m.)

			

			   I.	Call to Order	12:30 p.m.					 		

			  II.	Approval of Minutes of May 17th, 2019	

			Correction to item on ARPT Manual: In the Resolution on Revised ARPT Manual, the Senate voted to “accept” the revised manual – not to “adopt”. The minutes should reflect the Parliamentarian’s statement that revisions to Faculty Bylaws require a vote by the Full Faculty. Also, the minutes should reflect that the Revised ARPT Manual was forwarded to the FRRC/Bylaws Working Group for appropriate action prior to submitting to the Faculty for approval.

			Motion to approve the minutes as amended. Approved.



III.	Introduction of Senators

			

			IV.	Approval of 2019-2020 Faculty Senate Meeting Schedule

			Motion to approve the schedule was seconded and approved without dissent.  

			

			V.	Special Order of Business (M. Dolan, Parliamentarian)

				An explanation of the role of FS Executive Committee and the function of each member. 

			Under the Faculty Bylaws, EC members are considered the officers of the Faculty.   

			Election of 2019-2020 Faculty Senate Vice Chair: No nominations.

			Election of 2019-2020 Secretary/Treasurer

			Dana Tomlin self-nominated for [re]election to the position; nomination was seconded. Dana explained that during her upcoming parental leave, the Alternate Senator for the Library, Christa Devirgilio, would fill in for her in Sec. role. No questions or concerns.   

No other nominations for Sec./Treas. from the floor; nominations were closed. Election by acclimation.

			Election of 2019-2020 At-Large Representative to the Executive Committee. 

			Any Faculty Senator is eligible to be nominated for this position. The At-Large Rep may bring to the attention of EC, concerns or issues on behalf of other faculty or groups.

			

			 VI.	FS Chair’s Report  

			Appointment of two “At Large Senators”:  John Estes (CP) & Helidon Gjergji (VA)

			

			 VII. President’s Report

			Largest student body in the college’s history. There are many members of faculty and staff that reached out to students to get them to register. We are delighted that you did this and just know that it made a difference

			Special thanks to Cris Notaro, Assistant Dean of the School of Arts & Sciences, for your efforts to get late returning students

			Vendor for Natural Science Building and Clark Center must address issues that need to be repaired.

			We are continuing the charge to renovate and expand the Natural Science Building. 

			The challenge as always is money.

			We continue to fight and stay optimistic, because we had a similar problem with the old Academic Village, and we overcame that.

			We are very pleased with our growth and our new faculty, but we must increase the diversity of our faculty. As our student body is diverse, our faculty must reflect that.

			Looking for a new president. The State University is waiting to receive proposals for prospective candidates

			Soon we will have a search firm

			Chair of Presidential Search Committee was Mario Mignone, Chair of College Council.

			Until search firm is defined, we do not have a concrete answer as to when things will happen.

			We will continue to work hard on the STEM center. Continue to work with the Provost, making it a point to at least set the groundwork for it. 

			He thinks this college is better situated to succeed than any he knows. The faculty have given us everything they have. Much of the leadership in Academic Affairs and Advancement has come from the faculty

			Michael Eric Dyson Is coming! We have a number of things in store. 

			Maureen has been working since he got here, to get us to pay more attention to energy and green. She will continue to work in this capacity.

In response to comment from Maureen Dolan on funding initiatives available through NYSERDA, he said it would be good if she met with him in next two weeks. 

			The president then spoke about the importance of diversity of thought. 

			He stands with the faculty on free speech and academic freedom. In what you like and what you support; in what you don’t like and what you hate, he stands with us.



			VIII.	Provost’s Report	

			He welcomes everyone back. Anthony Barbera will give Middle States update. Duncan Quarless will also give an update. Middle States effort is necessary for us to sustain our accreditation. 



			A) Anthony Barbera: Middle States update 

			Site Visit in Spring of 2021 is not conducted by employees of Middle States, but peers from neighboring institutions. The Self Study report needs to be done by December 2020. What we’ve done this week is the actual work from the eight Working Groups, formed according to the 8 Middle State standards. The working groups will continue their efforts over the next academic year. 

			If you are asked by a work group member for information, please cooperate with them.

			Half the people in the room today are involved. 

			Note that half the employees on this campus are not faculty,

			We want to attempt to break down the silos, we have stated that in our documents 

			He anticipates giving updates throughout the year. Jacob Heller will 

			

			B) Jacob Heller: Enrollment update 

			We met our head count goal for this fall and the last 3 Falls. We are doing much much better and up by 1%, this is the largest headcount we ever had: 5,151 students, and the largest graduate student group at 321. There are parts of the enrollment picture that are worth thinking about.

			He also thanks Chris Notaro for her due diligence, in student success.

Some comments and questions on financial cancellation and academic calendar.

			 Faculty comment: So, we have more students, but not necessarily the same students. Until we get rid of financial cancellation, the suffering of our individual students is immense - the students that are willing to do the right thing, we are begging to add back people who need certain courses. The fact is, our numbers may be good, but individual human beings suffered whether or not they came back. It is our college’s policy that wreaks havoc. Especially for students of color, we are the perpetrators. 

			Faculty Comment on Semester Schedule: Many of us noticed months ago, we have an extra week in this semester, 16 instead of 15 weeks. Is this going to be a thing going forward? And do we need to get paid a little more for teaching? 

			Response from Jacob Heller: Reassurance that this won’t happen again. In 2021/2022, the number of days for each of the days of the week is 15.  The reason we have to start before Labor Day is because we have to put in 15 weeks before Christmas.   Starting before Labor Day: some years we start before, some years we start after. 

			FS Chair Comment: Faculty representation on Financial Cancellation Task Force is needed. One more spot is available, please email the chair if interested.

																First Year enrollment is down (140)

																Transfer enrollment is down (70)

																Demographics changes on Long Island and in the country

																Add/Drop period extended due to Labor Day. 

																45 students added in last two days (added new students). Don't talk about Add/Drops to new courses...something like 6,000 added.		 

																Add/Drop in Fall 2020 won't end on Sunday as it did this year.

																Add/Drop period and late registration must comply with SUNY liability rules

																Ways to lessen difficulty in the process; workshop or training, for students who need additional support.

																Spring 2020 schedule: contacting department chairs over the next week about problems and changes. 

																Moratorium on adding new adjuncts at this time; same number of sections as offered in Spring 2019

																Cited Hedva Lewittes’ years of leadership as Director of Academic Assessment; a new team is going to run Academic Assessment: Ryoko Yamamoto and Ashley Lien.



																C) Duncan Quarless: 

																Two things intersecting, advancing campus goals.

																1. Our campus was to submit proposal to SUNY for PRODiG: a faculty-focused initiative in SUNY system, to improve diversity of Faculty across the system.

																2. Current Strategic Plan, goals and related objective: 

																Goal #3: Cultivate social justice and environmental responsibility, sustain and increase diversity of faculty and staff.

																Both came into resonance, currently have initial PRODiG committee (including 4 faculty members: Andy Mattson (Faculty Senate Chair), Jasmine Mitchell (U, American Studies), Lori Zaikowski (Chemistry & Physics) and Manya Mascareno (Biological Sciences)

																PRODiG committee, responding to SUNY’s request for proposals, convened over summer, due to deadline for initial proposal. Currently in discussion on revision to the proposal

																Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion meeting, involving Duncan and Jacob, later today (9/6) if timing works.

																Cited SP Goal #3A: increase the diversity of faculty and staff. 

																Recruit faculty and staff whose diversity reflects the student body.

																Self analysis: not quite, starting somewhere. PRODiG addresses racial and ethnic diversity (beginning of addressing).

																SP #3A strategy 1: diversity that addresses religion, gender, sexuality, region, etc.

																Provost e-mail is intended to create an institutional consciousness about this, 

																“Process Advocate” comes out of committee suggestion. Emphasis: Process Advocate  does not interfere with a Search Committee making a determination on a candidate, but rather, creates a consciousness about the process (as reflected in the Chronicle article). The Provost wants to create institutional consciousness about the hiring process.

																		'Reduce access bias in the applicant pool'

																		'Weird-timing' in our searches, 

																Committee includes Deans, Jacob Heller, Chief Diversity Officer (Usama Sheik), Pat Lattini (affiliate member), Lillian Colella.

																Faculty hire includes a budgeting piece. 	

																Diversity gap in Fall 2018. Student diversity: 55% URM (Under-represented minorities), 

																24% URM in the faculty. One department has 0% URM, another department has 60%.School of ED, diverse faculty but not student body.

																Comments:

																Faculty Comment: process should be bottom up rather than top down, should involve FRRC or Ad Hoc Committee on Diversity committee rather than Provost’s Office or deans. Will create problems in long run if only top down. 

																Response: The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: historically had a program that provided an opportunity for diversity hire, no longer a separate faculty diversity program, PRODiG is now that program (it has been rolled together). Proposal submitted; would like funding assistance if possible.

																Faculty comment: questions the Logistics of Process Advocate. It is unclear what faculty “appointed by administration” means. How when they will be trained? How does this ensure diversity? Can the process advocate sink a search?

																We can engage departments in identifying some people (faculty) who would like to serve in the role as process advocate. Link them to the chief diversity officer and HR for the training component, "begin to move the needle"

																Faculty question: Do we have any statistics on Faculty who has been fired in the past 10 years? The impact of this on diversity of our faculty? 			

																Response: In past five years of self-analysis (as of Fall 2019), 100% retention of URM.

																Did not do as good a job with women in STEM.

																Faculty comment: Memo suggests that faculty don't know how to hire diverse faculty. A few failed searches in Public Health...in two of those searches, offer was insufficient ($70K/75K...when private will offer $100K).  Process advocate proposal is a 		“solution in search of a problem”.  How is a faculty member from a different department is going to help us think about diversity in public hiring? 

																

																IX.	Old Business: 

																

																Chris Hobson: Next steps for revising the ARPT manual:

																In Summer 2018, Executive Committee asked for draft revisions to ARPT Manual, which had not been updated since 2003. 

																The revisions do NOT introduce new policies, just bring into accordance with how the committee has proceeded.

																Vetting committee of six faculty members looked at revisions, various changes made, looked at last year by ARPT committee. 

																Senate looked at revisions to APRT manual in May; resolution to accept passed May 17th.

																Process going forward: Senate referred to Bylaws Working group, subcommittee of FRRC, prior to submitting to the full Faculty for vote. There will be a couple of meetings (at least two) open to all. Faculty who are interested will have a chance to ask questions, raise issues. Then it will go out for vote, by ballot, to the faculty.

																ARPT procedures in Fall 2019 will use the old [2003] ARPT Manual. If the new manual is approved, it will go into effect in Spring 2020 with proviso that anyone already in the tenure track process CAN continue under the old process, if so desired.

																We would like to vote on revised ARPT manual before end of Fall 2019, to implement the manual for Spring 2020. Manual, per resolution submitted by ARPT and passed by FS, goes into effect in the semester after the adoption by faculty vote.

																Some committees/candidates (who would meet this semester) would continue under the old [2003] manual.

																

																X. New Business

																

																A) Implementation of SUNY Consensual Relationship Policy is now in effect

																

																 B) Student Success Center: 

																Residential Life and First Year Experience have a few initiatives

																Early alerts have been going on for about 5 years, working with academic advisors. Attendance is a constant issue. Ongoing issue of students not going to class.  Saw 20% reduction. Looking to do a similar campaign (reminder to go to class)

																Student success guide, planner, where all resources are, gave one to every student living in the residential halls.  Students on campus are often having the issues of class attendance, not those off campus.

																Building academic success or skills towards building that success. If students are having issues, help identify them, alerts go to an actual advisor.	

																

																C) Faculty IT Governance (	Yogesh More, Veronika Dolar)

																Study on the instructional technology in the library classroom (update on the resolution from the study in shared governance)

																College got some money to renovate the library, CIO deadline set with the vendors (2018), now have a new vendor

																Spring Break 2018 replaced all non-functioning TVs, Library classrooms are now functional...but there were still problems

																70% response rate, 90% of responses mentioned issue across several technologies (as outlined in the report).

																Study was conducted after Spring Break 2018, ongoing issues

																Faculty Presented Resolution that we should study IT shared governance, conduct interview, review case studies for what are the Best Practices for IT shared governance; report by December 1st



																D) New Resolution from American Studies (Lisa Payton, Senator) 

																After returning from the summer, Mold has invaded the TV Studio, and in other locations of G wing mold was also noticed

																Can't use equipment (bags unavailable or unsafe due to the Mold)

																Procedural Statement from the Parliamentarian: Since the issue addressed in resolution is time-sensitive, the FS Chair has discretionary authority under the Bylaws to allow the resolution to be introduced, debated and voted on in a single session of the Senate, rather than over two (or more) sessions.  

																The resolution was seconded after being introduced. Unanimous consent to accept the resolution into the record.

																Discussion related to resolution:

																Who has come through for Dorm issues?  Local, State, NY Health, a lot of attention

																Recommend to touch base with facilities.

																Question from the floor: Is there a more efficient way to get something done instead of passing resolution? 

																Can we get the administration to apply the same methods of assessment and mediation to G-wing and elsewhere?

																Administration needs to be put on notice, signal in a public way, so this doesn't happen again.

																Other avenues are also being pursued simultaneously (e-mails, visiting, conversations)

																Motion for amendment to resolution: the mold assessment should address “G-wing, and other areas known to be affected by Mold on campus”.

																Motion to amend is seconded. Amendment passes with unanimous consent.

																Comment about need to find underlying cause. Since mold was found in Residence Halls last year, there could be broader air flow and HVAC issues. Beyond the urgent need to treat the mold, professional analysis is necessary to prevent recurrence.

																The resolution as amended was put to vote. Resolution as amended passed unanimously. 

																

																XI. Announcements:

																Martha Livingston: Labor Day is tomorrow for NYC, marching in the parade (9:30am, 44th Street between 6th and 7th, first 15 get a UUP hat)

																

																TLRC: New Faculty Orientation September 20th before the Senate meeting, NAB1100

																

																Michael Eric Dyson will be speaking on campus September 25th for the First Year Experience: “What Truth Sounds Like” takes place in the Clark Center 



Adjournment

						







1