Approved September 13,2019

Liberal Education Committee Annual Report 2018-2019
Composition
Domain Representatives for the 2018-2019 academic year were:
American Experience: Jasmine Mitchell (American Studies - U)
Basic Communication: Anahi Douglas (English - U)
Creativity & Arts: Patricia Harris (Visual Arts - U), Chair
Diversity: Sarah Smith (Public Health - U)
Foreign Languages: Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages - T)
Humanities: Kyle Anderson (History & Philosophy - U)
Math: David Ralston (Math - U)
Major Cultures: Edislav Manetovic (PEL - U)
Natural Science: Bright Emenike (Chemistry and Physics - U)
Social Sciences: Dana Prewitt (Sociology - U)
Western Tradition: Laura Limonic (Sociology - U)
While the new faculty bylaws only include the domain representatives as voting members of the
faculty, other regular LEC meeting participants included Yumi Nicholson, the Administrative
Coordinator of General Education, and Rachel Littenberg, the Registrar’s Office Transfer
Articulation Manager. Shalei Simms, Academic Affairs, attended in Fall 2018. Jacob Heller,
Assistant Vice President for Institutional Research and Assessment, and Hedva Lewittes,
Director of Academic Assessment, attended several meetings.
The LEC met eight times over the course of the 2018-2019, four times each semester. Meeting
dates were 9/14/18, 10/12/18, 11/9/18, 12/14/18, 2/8/19, 3/1/19, 4/12/19, and 5/10/19. Patty
Harris served as chair.
The faculty elections were not completed in time for next year’s LEC to convene to elect a chair
for the upcoming academic year. As the current chair’s term on the LEC is expiring, Edislav
Manetovic has offered to convene next year’s first meeting to elect a chair. The committee
expressed concerns that untenured faculty consistently make up the bulk of this important
committee, placing substantial pressure on junior faculty to take on politically sensitive and
labor-intensive service, particularly when serving as chair. This reflects a structural and cultural
overreliance on the most vulnerable full-time faculty to effect campus governance at Old
Westbury. The LEC is aware that the Senate has been exploring this issue and encourages those
efforts.
Curriculum
The LEC approved the following courses for inclusion within the Liberal Education Curriculum,
or for a second domain within the curriculum. With the exception of Diversity courses (a local
requirement), these courses were then sent to SUNY for system approval as General Education
courses:
•
•
•

PE1650: Politics of Comics (Creativity & the Arts and Diversity)
SY2222: The Work of Caring (Social Science and Diversity)*
HI3005: Environments in World History II (Major Cultures and Humanities)

Approved September 13,2019

•
•
•
•
•

VA3456: Creative Coding: Art and Games (Creativity & the Arts)
HI3003: Environments in World History I: Antiquities to the Middle (Western Tradition
and Humanities)
PE3xxx: Public Finance & Public Policy (Social Sciences and Diversity)*
CP2900 and CP2901: Astronomy Lecture and Lab (Natural Sciences)
CP2800: Nutrition and Health (Natural Sciences)

*Note: SY2222: The Work of Caring (Social Science and Diversity) and PE3xxx: Public Finance
& Public Policy (Social Sciences and Diversity) are in the queue for the SIRIS system. Once
they are registered there, they can be submitted to SUNY.
Domain representatives also worked with the LEC chair and R. Littenberg in the Registrar’s
office throughout the year to give students domain credit for qualifying transfer courses.
SUNY now requires that ASL be considered for the Foreign Language domain for all students,
so the Modern Languages department will work with the LEC in the fall to bring ASL into the
LE curriculum. Once this happens, LEC guidelines need to be revised to state that ASL can
satisfy all majors to reflect the SUNY requirement. LEC voted to remove a paragraph in the
current guidelines that states otherwise.
Liberal Education Curriculum Development Stipends
Funding for Liberal Education Curriculum Development Stipends has been temporarily
suspended. In Fall 2018, 2 courses developed under this stipend received dual-designated status.
• SY2222: The Work of Caring from Jillian Crocker (Sociology) for the Social Science and
Diversity domains.
• PE1650: The Politics of Comics from Carolyn Cocca (PEL) for the Creativity and the
Arts and Diversity domains.
Assessment
The LEC assesses the LE curriculum through the ongoing process of domain review on a fiveyear cycle. In addition, domain representatives work with the Director of Academic Assessment
to conduct student-learning assessment.
In domain review, the domain representative collects syllabi for all sections of all courses offered
in the domain in a given semester, and analyzes the syllabi to get a sense of the course offerings
in the domain (see appendix). This year, domain review was conducted in the Basic
Communication, Natural Science, and American Experience domain (by A. Douglas, B.
Emenike, and J. Mitchell, respectively). The LEC discussed and approved all three domain
review reports during our April and May meetings.
The LEC also discussed draft reports of Student Learning Outcome [SLO] assessment in the
Creativity & the Arts, Natural Sciences, and Social Sciences domains conducted in Spring 2018.
Diversity, Major Cultures, Basic Communication, and Information Management were conducted
in Spring 2019. These will be discussed in the coming fall semester. The domain representatives
worked with the Director of Academic Assessment to facilitate the assessment process.

Approved September 13,2019

Coordination
The LEC consistently weighs in on campus initiatives related to the curriculum, and domain
representatives serve as liaisons between the committee and the departments in their domains,
helping to ensure broad faculty knowledge about the LE curriculum. This is particularly
important given the recent changes in the LE curriculum precipitated by SUNY’s Seamless
Transfer initiative. Y. Nicholson and R. Littenberg consistently advise on how adopted courses
impact larger areas of the curriculum.
LEC and LEAP
In Spring 2016 a Resolution was passed in Faculty Senate calling for the adoption of LEAP
Learning Outcomes. In the Fall of 2018, an initiative was begun to map the current Old
Westbury curriculum onto the LEAP student learning outcomes. Jacob Heller presented a
Resolution to the Senate in December 2018 to form a committee to begin aligning LEAP student
learning outcomes to the Old Westbury curriculum. This Resolution passed. A committee was
formed that included Jacob Heller, Hedva Lewittes, Frank Sanacory, Patty Harris, Ashlee Lien,
Andy Mattson and Ryoko Yamamoto. Patty Harris served as Chair. The committee was called
the Learning Outcomes Joint Task Force aka the LEAP Implementation Mapping Committee.
The first step of mapping OW curriculum consisted of having Liberal Education Committee
domain representatives review the LEAP rubrics and fill out a map of learning outcomes created
by Jacob Heller. This was an initial broad sweep of alignment to review where consistency
existed and/or gaps. (appendix)
The LEAP Implementation Mapping Committee met on 2/26, 4/10, and 4/24 in spring 2019.
The process of alignment of learning outcomes has begun and will now be further developed.
SUNY White Paper and SUNY Green Paper re status of general education across SUNY
A SUNY White Paper on the state of general education across SUNY was received in late
October 2018. This paper was presented by Laurette Morris and discussed at Faculty Senate in
late October 2018. It was also discussed at the LEC meeting in November 2018. The White
Paper compared general education programs across SUNY. This paper suggested a full range of
areas of study in fulfilling general education requirements. In this respect, Old Westbury’s
program was in alignment with the SUNY suggestions. This paper also recommended using the
AAC&U’s LEAP (Liberal Education and America’s Promise) student learning outcomes. OW
had passed a Resolution through Faculty Senate in April 2016 to do so. A response to this White
Paper was written by Hedva Lewittes, Jacob Heller, and Patty Harris. This White Paper was
presented at Faculty Senate and sent to SUNY on 11/16/2018. (appendix)
A SUNY Green Paper was received in March of 2019. The Green Paper supported LEAP student
learning outcomes but also made a recommendation to limit the number of domains applied to
general education. The LEC discussed this paper as did the LEAP Implementation Mapping
Committee. There were several points raised in response to this paper. A response was written by
Jacob Heller and Hedva Lewittes, with contributions from members of the LEAP mapping
committee. It was sent to SUNY on 5/1/2019. This response and the points raised were discussed
with the LEC at the April meeting. (appendix)

Approved September 13,2019

The Liberal Education program at Old Westbury is in good shape in relation to SUNY
recommendations. The alignment with LEAP will continue to develop in a manner suitable to the
mission of Old Westbury.
Math Advising Guide
Finally, the Math domain review and SLO assessment of Spring 2017 indicated that many
students were being advised into MA1020 who likely would have been better served by one of
the other proficiency courses, such as MA2050 Quantitative Reasoning. In response, D. Ralston
solicited information on Math requirements in a range of majors and drafted an advising flow
chart to help advisors suggest the math proficiency course for which students will be best suited.
D. Ralston presented a final version of this chart at the LEC and it was approved. It is now
available for distribution to departments.

Circulated September 2019 and approved.