AT OLD WESTBURY

FACULTY SENATE MEETING



		Friday, November 16, 2018 

		12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 

		Location Science 100



*** ALL MEMBERS OF THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND. ***



Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:

https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive



Minutes

Senators in Attendance: Andrew Mattson (Chair), Jennie D’Ambroise (Vice Chair), Dana Tomlin (Secretary, Treasurer), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Manya Mascareno (Senator at-Large), Priscila Ortega (SGA), Sara Williamson(MMF), Lina Gillic (EE), Lisa Payton (AS), Jillian Nissen (BS), Camille Jones, CP, Deepa Jani, (EN), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Veronkia Dolar (PEL). Seojung Jung (PY), Christopher Hartman (PH), Royoko Yamamoto (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Fred Fleisher (VA), Patty Harris (LEC), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC)



Senators Absent: Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Joseph Foy (Senator At-Large), Peter Ikeler (Senator At-Large), Kathleen Veslor (Senator At-Large),Runi Mukherji (University Senator Alternate), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum(Professional), Ana Martinez (professional), Amna, Kamil (SGA), Taj Ford (SGA), Laura Anker (FY), Linval Frazer (AC), Xavier Marechaux (AE), Blidi Stemn (CE), Jing Yi Song (HP),Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Rose Muzio (CAP),Peter Ikeler (ARPC), Laura Limonic (ARPC), Jillian Crocker (TLRC), 



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Calvin Butts (President), Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost), Barbara Hillery (Dean SAS)



Visitors: Michael Kavic, Cris Notaro, Ed Bever, Bonnie Eannone, Anthony Barbera, Hedva, Al McCollum, Anissa Lynch, Fred Fleisher



Guests:



			  0.	Meeting arrival and sign in	12:20 p.m.

			

			  I.	Call to Order	12:30 p.m.		

			

			  II 	Chair’s report	

             Senate & Committee Vacancies: The Faculty Senate Chair fills committee vacancies that remain unfilled after the election. 

Ad Hoc Committee on Applied Learning: Two SAS Vacancies. Are you interested in Applied Learning?  Email the FS Chair if you wish to help shape our criteria and approval process for Applied Learning. 

RFC: SUNY “Consensual Relationship” Draft Policy:  The SUNY Board of Trustees has “directed each campus to implement, with input from appropriate members of the workplace and campus communities including local governance, a consensual relationship policy.”   A “DRAFT - SUNY Consensual Relationship Policy” containing the minimum requirements established by the Board of Trustees will be shared for consideration.  An email requesting comment will be sent to all Senators. 

Laurie Morris. They want campuses to decide what the policy by March. They want campuses to decide what the policies should be. So the draft is just something to work with and get feedback.

Should all faculty get the email? The consensus is yes

SPAAR Task Force Update:  The Task Force will meet for the second time on November 26, 2018. The Co-Chairs are Dr. Amanda Frisken & Mr. Michael Kinane. The Task Force is expected to complete its work by the beginning of the spring semester so that the work of the SPAAR Committee (SPAARC) can begin. 

			III.    Approval of Minutes for November 2nd 	

			Veronika Dolar was at the meeting

			Changing Anthony Barbera’s name to the correct spelling 

			Top of page 5 add in, submitting CEPH report

			Laurie Morris sent her documents electronically           

			

			  IV.	Presidents’ Report	

			Had a great meeting with new faculty. Provost provided brunch. Got to meet some of the new faculty to put faces to names

			Raised points, spoke highly and appreciatively about their mentors that helped them to get oriented to campus. 

			Some issues were raised about formal or informal mentoring. Should it be implemented 

			Issues of IT were also raised, Smart classroom technology

			Enthusiasm for teaching, encouraged them to become more deeply involved in faculty senate and committees; to help strengthen our campus to make it a better place for teaching and learning.

			“If there was anyone who railed against process it was me” he says. But he encourages faculty to get involved

			May not always be able to do what is suggested but if we can we will

			No two groups more important than faculty and students

			Promoting diversity but things we are doing a good job

			Middle States site visit spring of 2021 but work is underway

			Anthony Barbera:  3 co-chairs, himself, Jacob Heller and Margaret Terell, in the middle of next semester the plan to figure out how to carry out self-study, meet with faculty members and students, the cabinet, meet with college council once plan is approved. Finalize report in summer 2020. Some will be invited to join various groups.

			Whole point of middle states is for campus to continuously improve

			Faculty that is here and was here he feels that we have done very well and continue to get stronger on all levels. 

			A lot of good, in order to continue we need the involvement of the faculty. From the building of NAB to faculty senate. All have been vocal and pressing on the vital issues. He is thankful for all we do.

			Not only Is there middle states but also our strategic plan.

			SPAAR Task Force: given the preview of its responsibility, wide range discussion. Varying continuum, all very collegial. Monday the 26th they meet to go over what was discussed. On target to finish work before spring semester starts

			Draft to consider and discuss. Mandy Frisken has been proactive. If the task force is what we are going by then we will be successful. 

			Dr. Butts says PLEASE stay involved, stick with the senate. Look for opportunities to participate. Pressing things through is his wish. He respects process and sees how important it is. 

			Helps to keep new members of the faculty informed and helps gained made to not be eroded 

			Hopes everyone will have a great thanksgiving and hopes most people were not inconvenienced by storm

			Jennie: took 30 minutes to get to road from her building, why were classes not cancelled? People thought the rain would come earlier but the weather is not predictable at all… they knew there would be a storm but not that bad

			Are their blows that operate on our campus? Yes

			Ali Embrahimi- wants to know about quality of campus in general… how to make it better? Parking is better but not 100% we need some risk management. For emergency situations. On the issue of continuous improvement. Resolution about technology on campus. Not about personalities. We need the money to invest. Beg to put energy/money towards it. He hopes it will happen while president Butts is here. 

			Talks about faculty lunch and center for learning but we lost it. Can we bring it back?

			Butts: addressing parking is not finished. He is pleased we could get the new parking lot up… he thought we had a faculty lounge. But learning that it has been lost.

			He brings back meeting with new faculty and the technology not working well. And he will be meeting with Evan because he says it makes no sense to have a “smart classroom” that is not smart

			Hoping that with new administration we will get new money. Gave 1 million dollars for new TV studio. Carle Marselino sent aside several hundred for us. If we stay with our process and participate 

			Strategic plan analysis assessment and review SPAAR

			If we stick with the process and implementation. With our participation we can improve

			Time flies. we have talked about upgrading, the conversation happened 15 years ago so now it is time to update

			He is encouraged by faculty that is here and new faculty that we will make great strides going forward

			He is here and reachable. Points to Dr. O’Sullivan as our fearless leader. 

			Our top issue is our new science building. We need a new building, not an upgrade to the current one but a brand new one to help us to grow

			Write to assembly people. 

			Just in case we had something that was tantamount, the hate speech. A student built something that was destroyed. He has to make sure that he is sensitive to his speech. We cannot count on anything we hear or see. Whatever it is. Let the administration know. We cannot let anything go. We must deal with everything; it cannot be tolerated. We are in a fragile time.

			We have been blessed but we have to be careful. Wherever you hear it or see it, our foundation is social justice but we argue for the rights of all human beings. Everyone has a right to articulate their point of view on this campus. No violence, no drugs, no alcohol. We have to protect our community 

			Use the library! Tell your students to use it.

			

			  V.	Provost Report	

			Ali Ebrahimi: sometimes we give a report and we do not see feedback. Technology and how we lack resources. He has a great respect for the provost, instead of giving handouts on how to teach.  With an issue that is raise, he wants to see a result. 

			Dr. O’Sullivan says he has less money than last year but there is still the demand for it. He is aware of some of the problems that are occurring. He will meet with Evan Kabolokis next week. Always a matter of money. He sent out an article. If you read it, you will see what has happened to public education funding.

			We are getting a smaller percentage of the NYS operating budget than ins 2011, 2010 but the upside is we have more student so we can hire more faculty. Investing in faculty as much as we can

			The busses, 150k, these are items we do not talk about but he appreciates and should be more responsive

			Anthony Barbera: the library has classrooms that has state of the art technology, we find some of the technology is not compatible but the monitors and software are what are being put in other colleges. Given our budget we are told that what has been put in there is state of the art

			Chair: Evan responded has been looking at the rooms and IT governance is supposed to deal with technology requests for improvement and decide what requests get put to the front. Faculty through governance and Patty Harris and Yogesh. That’s the forum but we must make the most of it. 

			Verokina Dolar- teaching COIL class, the issue is that one of the basic components are camera and mic, one of the biggest issues and challenges that we have. All the rooms are equipped with fancy equipment and do not have camera and mic. She thought there would be a conference center but Dr. O’Sullivan will check it out. 

			Camera we do have does not capture the whole classroom. Some logistical issues for collaborative online learning that must be addressed

			Fred Fleisher: for one of the classroom F1-13 campus center, there is a bank of lights that do not work, the steps have been taken to request that it be fixed but it still does not work. 

			Would be nice to get someone to the room when we need it, it would help if we can prioritize what is urgent.

			Provost will make sure to report back and see what he can do to expedite the process. There is an IT service desk. Eduardo Espinoza that looks at all incoming requests and prioritizes them. The system does exist. 

			Provost says he is glad you are not willing to live with it and you wish to voice concerns.

			Another concern is, comfort and health issue of cold classrooms like the one we are in, Science 100. Students may choose not to come back to the College because of things like this. 

			Answer: Sometimes we have so many new people, we are also pushing sustainability issues. We try not to spend money heating rooms that are not being used. This room is not normally used so not normally heated. Facilities should have been contacted.

			If you are not sure of who to contact is the department secretary.

			

			  VI.	Special Order of Business                   	

			

Election of At-Large Representative to the Executive Committee

Usually done by Maureen Dolan

Begin by asking for nominations for at large represented to EC

Nominating Mike Kavic by Jennie D’Ambroise

Any other nominations? Since there is only one nomination can we move by acclimation?

All in favor, unanimously accepted 

			

			  VII.	 Old Business 

				

			LEC Report (Patty Harris)	

			Here to answer questions

			Report has been sent

			Basically she is asking if anyone has any questions about it?

			Report was distributed by email and paper copy was distributed last time

			Motion to accept, was seconded. All accepted 

				    

			FRRC Annual Report (Alireza Ebrahimi)	

			Here to answer questions with faculty rights and responsibilities faculty report

			One thing he wants to get back is that according to bylaws we are mandated to have a workshop every year. Fall is not a very good time. But he is encouraging questions

			On the future planning of the workshops, discussion on final grades. 

			We are mandated to have submission of final grade in 48 hours. This has been troubling for people who teach more than 2 courses have 90 or so students. When you do calculations that is just not possible for a quality based final grade

			We have some solutions, not have batch system, let system run. 

			Common hour move. Some issues that common hour is the middle of the day. 

			Issue of the union, has some functions that have things that happen at 12pm. And they miss it. Union has to have 12pm meeting and not everyone can go there. 

			3rd issue mentioned is the faculty lounge. Sharing of ideas, to eat, positive. We are looking into that to find a space. We now have space for it.

			The faculty bylaws revision, looking into changes

			Faculty award committee. We cannot fulfill them because of the requirements for it.

			Any ideas for future planning for workshops

			One thing we want to do is, full faculty meeting providing lunch.

			Anthony Barbera page 4. There were no formal faculty grievances… for middle states it be noted that a quantitative number be included even if it’s none. Part of student complaint process. There is a federal regulatory compliance that students can complain about whatever they want. He wants to commend whoever wrote this that that’s great

			Not just about grievance on students but grievance on anything. Anyone can come to us and complain. But we are happy to do the job. We are not there to solve the problem but to mend it. 

			Mitigate. Maybe we don’t have to do this paperwork if we can resolve it without those things. There are situations that we are mandated to try to resolve within us without paper. The grievance is mostly about a student complaining about grades.

			One student complained about plagiarism… could not do anything about it

			Anthony Barbera- issues with student grade appeals and now you have none? What has changed.

			Workshops last year were on syllabus, we are more on par with other schools and smaller classes where we have a better opportunity to know the students and what goes on. We hope it is not students not being aggressive but that out faculty is better. 

			Let us make some kind of change, sounds like syllabus policy make it harder for students to complain because its clearer. 

			Syllabi would be the kind of example. Whoever writes the report should note that for middle states to show that was the reason for the drastic change

			

			  VIII.	New Business	

			  

			FLOW Program and Spring Financial Literacy Fair (Pat Lettini). 

			Last meeting documents were distributed. 

			Pamphlet given to first year group.

			All about finance, got good feedback. All about financial literacy program at Old Westbury.

			Committee made up of administrator’s faculty and staff. They meet once a month to put in place, some type of financial background in life. 

			Started out by a grant by SUNY, if you wish to go into the website and take a look.

			Bunch of courses that you can take, like defensive driving that you can do at home

			In NYS we are one of the 17 states that do not require financial literacy in high school.

			Most do not take financial literacy course, for example, what to do with a loan or your paycheck.

			There is a program about how to do your FAFSA

			Some classes are a little advanced, e.g. mortgages

			We have been cited by SUNY as one of the leading programs in the system.

			We have had 1800 registrants, almost 8,000 courses have been completed and 3500 students who are active. We are going through our cycle of students. We are hoping that we are just giving just a little bit more

			Last year we put together a fair, looking for those interested in putting on presentations. What would our students be interested in?

			Exhibits were done by some insurance companies in a festival atmosphere. iPad giveaways, gift cards, separate room for retirement programs. Tax professional. Everything but credit card sign-up. First week in April. In line with financial literacy month

			Trying to get not only faculty involved. He sat on SGA, trying to reach out to clubs. Getting information from everyone one about what should be presented, there are 5 to 7 slots available/

			Financial aid staff will be there, specific questions about loans, exit interviews

			We did it last year, just about 525 staff, faculty and students. 20 presenters and vendors

			They are looking for a festive atmosphere. Trying to make it exciting. 

			All we do is present it on the faculty senate level, reaching out to everyone who may be willing to help, he goes to departmental meetings, council meetings, they want students and classes to come.

			He thinks it was really worthwhile and there will be food!

			The handout given was from last year. 

			He is the Associate Vice President, Business Affairs and Controller and Flow committee chair person

			Faculty member asked who is the person in charge of tables set up, the answer is Michael Dolan, staff member business and finance 

			Vendors can come for free, cannot sign up for credit cards though

			            

			         B. Curriculum and academic planning committee (CAP)

			A proposal was brought that went to CAP, not going to talk about it but wishing to enter it into the record so that at the December 7th meeting it can be discussed and voted on. Goal is to be looked at, voted on and a discussion can begin on December 7th. All faculty will be given access electronically. Asking senators to get feedback from respective departments to see how people feel about it so we can move it along. 

			Concluded that the goal is to do this in time for advising in the spring.  Time is important.

			Anthony Barbera: two types of certificates. Two types SUNY and SED or campus certificate…can propose as amendment, solution would be to delete AND certificates. Leave it as minors. 

			Motion to accept into record… seconded… done 

			SUNY Old Westbury response to white paper

			

			Patty Harris: response to a white paper that came down from SUNY

			Task force for general education, they asked all campuses to respond. Response is due quickly.

			To our surprise, before any of us read it we expected the worst, that SUNY has a habit of changing things once you have gotten things together and pushing due dates up, never the less:

			In regards to our program meets requirements. We are on top of all the comprehensive colleges. Like Geneseo and New Paltz. We are leadership by going above and beyond the minimum to include diversity and having approved the institutional outcomes of LEEP. FYE call program. This is affirmative report from our point of view. Gives us a map to go forward in terms of gen ed program and its assessment. For those of you don’t know she is the director of academic assessment (Does anyone know who was speaking with Patty Harris?)

			there was a movement to restrict the number of domains. we resisted that.  Now we are covering more of these areas that middle states wants to be assessed.

			Liberal Education Committee, true collaborative effort between the committee members, the chairs, a lot worked on it over a period of time.  There have been changes in the bylaws which make for a better functioning committee. The Liberal Education Committee has now changed from being a dumping ground for faculty to have something to add to their service, to a wonderfully substantive committee. A great accomplishment! A number of faculty who have worked on it, great continuity to see how issues were resolved. 

			The way the committee is working so well, the communication being so great is a direct result of how the people work so well together. A process of building.

			The document created was a reaction from another document.

			Senators have it? Share it with everyone. If you think your faculty is motivated. 

			Since they did delay it, some formal approval or recognition of the response. It has not been sent up to SUNY yet. 

			The provost funded an institutional review of the general education.

			Administration has been supportive but in 2014 as we went through the last reform, instead of covering all domains, cover few but many resisted.

			Now we meet Middle States requirements. 

			We were under pressure to have the transferability from Nassau and Suffolk to our College.

			Our program remains in-tact. But Nassau Community College did not get reaccredited by Middle States.

			We have found other ways to make our impact deeper and broader.

			One of the issues of transfer students coming in, we did a lot of double dipping, approving courses in more than one domain. One category of diversity. Somewhat unique, diversity courses however, we have many.

			The wisdom of many faculty in approving and then this SUNY paper comes along and how they have better programs; we can congratulate ourselves 

			Motion to approve the response to accept the response? Yes, motion accepted

			

					

			 IX.      Sharing of Concerns	 

			Royoko Yamamoto in sociology states:

			BLUE from academic affairs. Everyone in her department has raised some concern.

			Low response rate in BLUE system, some classes, only three people have responded.

			The students who respond are the ones who feel strongly either way will respond. So how to engage others and encourage responses?

			Students ask, is the survey voluntary? If we give time during the class, you may get more to do it.

			Regardless of the format it is encouraged that we do, do it in class whether it is on paper or electronic. 

			We need to be clear about how this will go procedurally 

			Lead time, necessary. Duncan Quarless said the evaluation will open up 2 weeks before finals week.

			If you want to give time during class, factor it in. They had a conference call on Blue this morning, there still implementing it and the nuts and bolts are still being worked out.

			In hearing Duncan to describe blue, he was saying that evaluations would be available to students so that they can pick classes.

			Royoko Yamamoto: I don’t know about the timing of it but it might be a rate my professor, institutional version. Students can see but faculty cannot look at other faculty.

			In some institutions students are barred from accessing grades if they do not fill out an evaluation. 

			Still unclear as to what is concerned and what is not. It is not a requirement here. You will be able to see your grades even if you do not complete an evaluation.  

			Ed Bever: Public schools that’s not legal, we cannot block their access. 

			With online systems it is complicated to achieve the ability to see the rating of faculty. When they were in a paper process, you could see them in the library. 

			We have spent a while thinking about increasing response rate. Incentives to fill them out? Possibly. 

			Concerns with low response rate to class evaluations

			Improve instructions

			Improve timing of release of instructions

			Concern of students being able to access these online

			We are aware of when the students have access

			Faculty involvement on this feedback process of Blue. But maybe not on the implementation. Maybe bring Duncan back?

			is the body that picked Blue still functioning? In the end that committee became Duncan. 

			Faculty member- campus became very unsafe yesterday during storm, she got into an accident last year due to lack of paving… response time for inclement weather is too slow on this campus. Making sure we are safe on campus needs to be addressed.

			Main entrance had been closed. The closing of that entrance caused him to have to reroute. Its serious problem. Would be plowed better than other entrances. 

			They closed gate A, on shuttle, allowed driver to go in. took 2 hours to get to railroad station.

			Configuration of the road makes it difficult. The governor was prepared for 1 to 2 inches and that’s who makes the decision. Unexpectedly bad

			Event handling: requesting admin to come out with committee for cases like these. We need to come out with a committee so that.

			Lisa Payton doesn’t want yesterday to happen again.

			 X.  	Announcements	

				Accept FRRC Report, Report was accepted 

XI.      Adjournment 

				

1