State University of New York College at Old Westbury
Faculty Senate Meeting
December

17, 2004

Members Present: C. Sawyer, M. Dolan, J.Edelson, R. Mukherji, L. Cox, M.
Rankin, M. Kinane, K. Velsor, A. Ebrahimi, E. Bever, M. Foglino, A. Frisken, H.
Teoh (for M. Coloneri), C. Hobson, L. Zhao, C. Cocca, H. Lewittes, L. Rader.
Visitors:

M. Keizer,

G. Seidman,

S. Kaufman,

R. Mattai,

M. Kim, M. Marquez

Bell, J. Llana, W. Lupardo, B. Serrano, T. Delgiuidice, J. Conforti, J. Lloyd, R.
Gonzalez, R. Welto, M. Veve

Approval of Minutes:
Amendements:

J. Camp to be amended to “he”.

Edelson. Seconded: H. Lewtittes.

Minutes unanimously approved
L

Chairs Report:

I.

President’s Report:

Ill.

AVP’s Report:
a.

Motion to approve:

Unanimously approved.

J.

(appended)
No report.

Dr. Butts is traveling.

Thanks to everyone for your input on Mission Review II. It is under
review with the President. Faculty Senate should create a
process of review and consultation with governance for major

b.

planning documents and projects like this.
| wish everyone a good Holiday Season. We need to think about
the value of offering courses during the Winter Session...do we get
enough back? We spend $16,000.00 but we do not get that back.
Further, we need to get 4-year plans for courses to be offered by
each Department so that students can plan when they will
graduate. We also need to do this for other requirements,

c.

not

just for the major.
| want to introduce Rudy Mattai. He has been in the field for 20
years, and is Full Professor at SUNY Buffalo, which has the largest
TE program in SUNY. He will be responsible for building out School

of Education and will report directly to the AVP. NCATE is Dr.
Mattai’s first area of responsibility.
E. Bever: We need to look at the Winter Session in the context of

Continuing Ed., and maybe other forms of marketing.

L.Cox: We need to organize Winter Session to grow enrollment.
meet with CAP about courses and sequencing.

J. Conforti:

We will

Isn’t the 4-year sequence clearly delineated in the catalog?

L.Cox: We need more info than just departmental courses; we need
other requirements and sequences.
R.Mukherji: Why don’t you ask the Council of Conveners do tackle this?
L.Cox: They’ve been told and we’ve got most of them
C.Hobson: Are you asking for 4-year sequences or 4 year projection for
departmental offerings?
L.Cox: Both and the second is more difficult than the first. We need
that for appropriate budgeting and scheduling projections.
C. Sawyer: Could you contextualize the NCATE process, School of
Teacher Education and the appointment of Dr. Mattai?
R. Mattai: | am grateful to Dr. Butts to offer me this position. Someone
rose from the dead in three days........| have been here three days and

the opposite is happening!

There are two forms of accreditation for TE: NCATE is over 50 years old,

and accredits all US TE departments, it has partnerships with several
states including NY.

NCATE only accredits the Unit, not the institution.

TEAC accredits programs not Units. If you look at the chronological
progress, we are 2 years behind. We have to get on the fast track, to
finish in a realistic timeframe of 8 months. NCATE looks at states
requirements for TE, at how the Unit provides support for access to
majors required for TE graduates. There are 3 aspects of NCATE:
1. Assessment
2. Partnerships with schools
3. Establishment of clearly defined Unit----i.e. School of Education.

| want to express thanks to you for your support of the Unit.
B. Serrano:

By 1982, we got first 12 programs in TE.

In 2001, with

collaboration with L. Anker, we got program approval for 13°”. In 1990,
we submitted concentration. 2001 was our most recent registration of
TE under the new nominal categories. This is our current situation:
2001
206 majors
2002
2003

416 majors

(Fall) 519 majors.

We currently have 133 pending majors.

majors.

So we are currently serving 700

We were given three options for accreditation:
1. NCATE
2. TEAC

3. RATE (Regents Accreditation of TE)
We joined SUNY Albany, Binghamton, & Buffalo.

US Department of

Education did not grant TEAC accreditation privileges.

We wanted to go

to RATE, but this has not got its act together.
Last July, we submitted our proposal for candidacy. SPA (Special
Programs Assessment) in November. SPA’s have been sent to different
accrediting agencies. We will not hear till first of February. We have

been selected to participate in pilot program of 25 campuses to

streamline the accrediting process. The preconditions were submitted
in July. We have met all but two of preconditions: #5, which is the
process precondition, and #4 (a piece called the Philosophical
Backbone) which is the most problematic. We need to rethink this. So,
we have not met two preconditions and we are waiting to get the SPA
review back.
M. Keizer: It would appear that there was some special urgency in this
appointment? Why this crisis in the appointment of the Dean?
J.Lloyd: (Co-Chair of NCATE). | have been doing NCATE for 4 years....|
am going to wait until the end to provide information.

Before, the State registered programs, but now, State will not accredit

TE programs,

until it has been accredited NCATE.

With NCATE, we have to show that TE majors (candidates) can or cannot
do, including performance on certification exams. We are the last SUNY
institution to be accredited, and we are the only one going through the
new pilot accrediting program.
We have two major steps to go through:

1.

2.

Institutional Report. This is scheduled for Fall 2005. Dr. Cox
convened the committee to develop this report last Spring.
Visit: this is scheduled for Spring 2006. Board will examine all
aspects of campus and we will have to get everyone involved.

We are about 2 years behind. This process has had a lot of good effects:
we had great results in Secondary Ed. Also we are seeing our “holes” as
well. We need to have an electronic data base. There are also some
issues around Gen. Ed., especially for Secondary area. We do not have
the critical mass of faculty. (see Chronology) **attachment.

K. Velsor:

We need to look at the results of the assessment and look at

how we will be accountable, for example, whether we will be assess

whether our courses are building foundations etc.

E. Bever: What is the connection of the 5-Year Review of TE, with
NCATE? | have a sense of a significant disconnect between how TE sees

itself and now other programs see TE. NCATE seems to be a morass of
shifting regulations from many different agencies. Institutions have to
do what they want, because they hold the purse strings.
M.Keizer: Why were we the last institution to be accredited?

B. Serrano: We shopped around....
J.Lloyd: In 1999, only 4 institutions were accredited, and only one from
SUNY—Buffalo. Since then, several have been accredited. The
transition period for assessment expired a year ago, so this is a very

pressing issue.

TE at OW has not been very organized and we are way

behind partly because we did not do some of the things that we were

supposed to do.

M.Keizer:

To whom is NCATE accountable?

R. Mattai:

NYSDE and the US Dept of Education.

agencies that accredit NCATE.

If TE flunks NCATE,

And there are other

all departments will

flunk too.
A. Ebrahimi: Has any study been done on the selection of software?
K.Velsor: Yes, many other institutions use these programs too.
C. Hobson: | have a similar sense of disconnect........
The advantage of
the old days, when TE was localized; but Dr. Mattai conveyed a sense of
crisis if NCATE does not get done in time, things will fall apart.
L. Cox: This is an effort to make sure that the process gets off on the

right foot. There is an urgency, but there is no use in discussing specific
departmental issues.. | think we are moving forward, the department is
moving forward, and Dr. Mattai will help us to do this.

B.Serrano: We have been chronically underfunded. We are running a
program with 11 faculty and 22 adjuncts. O’Sullivan gave us four lines
and told us not to go to CAP.
M. Kim: TE candidates get the most jobs. We are doing GE, and NCATE,
and we need more lines to handle the demand.

J.Lloyd:

The issue of unit as raised by Dr. Mattai gives me hope.

There

is lots of interest in Secondary Ed...that’s where all the majors are, and
the faculty too. But now, with a shift in emphasis on the unit, we can
develop other programs.

M. Keizer: We all deal with amazing variability in
would like to come away from this meeting feeling
a campus would preparation of foundational skills
the board.
R. Mattai: NCATE process is continuous. After the

foundational skills. |
much better if we as
more seriously across
visit in 2006, it will

keep going. NCLB drives many of these issues. | am asking for
everyone’s support to make this into a more productive endeavor for all
of us.
C.Sawyer: | want to remind everyone that this is an issue of academic
reorganization, and the search for the new Dean should follow
procedure.
M. Foglino: (Read out the student resolution on MR II, stating that he
would submit the final version to the Faculty Senate Chair.)

C.Hobson:

| request that the requirement that resolutions wait to the

next meeting to be voted on when presented under New Business,

because of the urgency of the issue, and so that we do not jam up Dr.

Butts. | am referring to the Resolution on Academic Village
Rehabilitation. =
-

T. Delguidice: There isa plan for the rehabilitation of Academic Village.
Plans from the architect have to be approved by the Construction Fund.
But | will support anything that speeds up the process.
E. Bever: Let the record reflect that all the signatories are departments
located in the Academic Village.

J. Conforti: The problem with the building is not design, but the
maintenance. There is a kind of idiocy in having architects here
design changes!
T. Delguidice: | agree that maintenance is an issue, but this is a
million project and we would not be allowed to go ahead without
and a design.
E. Bever: Call the question.

Accepted uninanimously

lack of
to
$6
plans

C.Cocca: We discussed this issue in the PES Department meeting, and
we think that the unsuitable classrooms should be taken out of the

rotation in the class assignments.
Resolution was put on the floor.

Vote to accept was unanimous

Motion to adjourn at 3:42 was unanimously accepted.