Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes

Friday, October 31, 2014





Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding.), Fernando Guerrero (Vice-Chair/ML), Robert Gero (Secretary/Treasurer), Minna Barret (University Senator), Kathie Greenberg (Senator at-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Costas Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large), Caroline Sawyer (University Senator Alternate/Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator at-Large), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Laura Anker (First Year Experience), Curt Friehs (Library), Jeffrey D’amico (Accounting), Shalei Simms (MMF Dept.), Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence Education), Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Laura Chipley (American Studies), Michaiel Colaneri (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf (English), Juan Galvis (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Edislav Manetovic (PEL), Ashlee Lien (Psychology Alternate), Laura Limonic (Sociology), Patty Harris (Alternate VA),Cary Lange (CAP Committee), Alireza Ebrahimi (TLRC), Jacob Heller (FRR Committee). 



Senators Absent: Werner Sbaschnik (Parlamentarian), vacant (At-Large Representative to EC.), vacant (Professional), Frank C. Ilozue (SGA), vacant (Student Gov’t. Assoc.), vacant (Student Gov’t. Assoc.), Diana Sukhram (Exceptional Education), Manya Mascareno (Biological Studies), Shijian Li (Public Health), Cary Lange (CAP Com.), Chris Hobson (ARPT Committee), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC).



Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Patrick O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Wayne Edwards (VP Students Affairs), Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS), Anthony Barbera (Dean, SOB).

 

Visitors Present: Albert Buccher, Ashleigh Morris, Duncan Quarless (Chemestry & Physics), Samantha Quinn (Student Health Center), Deborah Rhem-Jackson (Assistant VP/Director College Readiness Program), Bryan Schwirzbin (Director, Office Students Conduct), Joanne Spadaro (Library),  Geta Techanie (Chair, Math/CIS Department), Dinorah Martinez (Recording)



Call to Order: 12:36pm



Approval of Minutes of September 12, 2014 (if available)



Dr. Velsor clarifies that in the minutes is reflected that the next meeting will be on November 7 and that was deleted from the original minutes for being a mistake. Next meeting will be on November 14.

Dr. Mania Mascareno is not Senator At-Large and is being replaced by Dr. Lisa Whitten. 

Joe Finer is Assistant Dean, not Assistant to the Dean.

Professional Mark Kettler left the College prior to the meeting.

Minutes were approved unanimously after highlighted amendments were made by the senators.



Chair’s Report



I have been working in consultation with the administration on a plan of action on two items.

Gen Ed Committee is discussing a resolution in support of the 80 credits, transfer credits 

The Resource, Allocation, Budget and Planning Committee (RABP). Will meet on Nov. 13th.  The committee will focus on two concerns. 

The alignment with the Strategic Plan as projected for 2015.

And Startup New York this is program coming through The Empire State Development Corporation. 

Senator comment: SUNY Cortland has a template for evaluating any sort of project that guarantees their mission in education. We might look at that Cortland template and see if it is good for us.



There was a resolution on the floor of the Senate on December 6, 2013 that addresses the need to explore social justice in our academic programs. It was never resolved and we need to redefine what that means to the faculty in 2015. The Executive Committee would like to engage faculty and students in an open discussion to talk about this issue during the spring semester. 

If you have concerns or have something new you want to talk about and discuss at the senate meeting, please, let me know.   One such concern came to me about our laptops which cannot print in the NAB.  I suggest that faculty can call the help desk and get a ticket and maybe they can help you.     



President’s Report

None



Provost’s Report



 We have to have a student evaluation system. I am making a formal request for a faculty group to work together to identify and develop a more effective instrument for the whole faculty to improve their teaching. I use it to give me information about the quality of teaching. The hand out I brought can serve as information on how to use the student evaluations. 

Performance metrics. Full Enrollment Picture, Diversity and Affordability are important sub items in Access on the handout you have, and Success has examples of applied learning under row B as internship, cooperative education, undergraduate/graduate students engaged in hands-on research. Those are key items. The goal of the chancellor is to have some system in place to evaluate the performance of each campus. The rumor is that those campuses that do well under these performance metrics will be rewarded with some additional funding. I will ask that Budget and Planning Committee take those metrics and have an evaluation of this so we have a position and see which of these metrics is suitable for us. For example research; how much money generates those grants. I ask each academic department to have a discussion on this metrics. If you have any questions I can join you to answer them. Chancellor is planning to take this to the Board of Trustees by January 2015. It is likely this system will be in place by Fall 2015. I would like to have each department’s comments by the end of semester, at least preliminary discussions, and also to discuss it with the Budget and Planning Committee. The wider the discussion with more people involved the better. This is going to happen whether we like it or not. We need to be more active in order to have more reasonable input. We need to send this package to the chancellor by the end of the year. A suggestion was made that it would be beneficial to look at the Social Mobility Index that monitors inequality as we evaluate these metrics. 

Four letters of intent for MS have been approved. The four are: Forensic Accounting, Entrepreneurial Leadership, Healthcare Management, and Master of Science degree in Social Science Research. 

There are four others from the School of Education that have been held and we are working through a plan given the current situation. There is also a request for a change in each code for Health and Society. On those courses approval won’t be granted until certain changes are made. The SUNY Provost is unoptimistic about OW going into this health care area. No explanation has been given. We will meet with the Budget and Planning Committee on November 13 and will take some guidance.

Ron Welton has the Undergraduate Catalog already online.

Dr. Butts requested to have a meeting with K. Velsor and the Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate.



New Business



CAP Report (Cary Lange)

We had an active year 2013-14 at CAP Committee between Minors and Certificate Programs approved. We have a Modern Language minor in Hispanic and Latin American Cultural Studies, a Certificate in Spanish/ English Translation and a Program Announcement for a Bachelor Degree in Hispanic and Latin American Cultural Studies.

Three Letters of Intent from the School of Education are pending approval and those are: Master of Science in adolescence Special Education with two different tracks, Master of Science in Childhood Special Education leading to Professional certification and also Master of Science in Literacy Education with three different tracks.

Three letters of Intent from the School of Business have been approved also, which are: Master of Science in Forensic Accounting, Master of Science in Entrepreneurial Leadership and small Business Management, and the last is Master of Science in Healthcare Management.

A Letter of Intent was approved for a Master of Science degree in Social Science Research in the Sociology Department. 

We also developed a Program Announcement for a Bachelor of Science degree in Public Health.

We learned after we posted the certification in Spanish/English Translation that there was a procedure that needs to be followed by any program. It must be submitted to Academic Affairs first to make sure the administration approves it before it is discussed at departments and sent to CAP. CAP has created a document detailing the procedure, which Dr. O’Sullivan explained at the last Provost Chancellor meeting, and Cary also circulated to all Deans and Department Chairs. Essentially it says that the starting point for any new academic program is Academic Affairs, to make sure it has the support of the Administration.

The Program Announcement for a Bachelor of Science Degree in Public Health is the one Dr. O’Sullivan was referring to a few minutes ago. It is stuck in Albany because it requires some changes. It requires some Master Plan amendment since SUNY Old Westbury is currently not approved for the call that will be required to provide a whole host of degrees within the Health Care field.

We have a number of Letters of Intent for graduate programs from the School of Education. A Master of Science Degree posted in Adolescent Special Education and also in Literacy Education. Those are still stuck in Albany to be processed.

Letters of Intent from the School of Business and also a Master’s Degree in Social Sciences has been approved by SUNY.

The resolutions for all programs were passed by Faculty Senate. We have two years from the day of approval (October 28) to get the full program proposal up to Albany. Minors don’t have to be approved by SUNY.

New procedures on Department Five Years Review

We have Five Year Reviews for Chemistry/Physics, Math, and Public Health that were approved after some minor revisions.

CAP will not entertain any program announcement or letter of intent from those departments that are overdue by more than 2 years with their five-Year Review. Also no new lines for any department in non-compliance. 

We changed the Five-Year Review time for History & Philosophy. One of their degrees was deactivated and replaced by BA in History. If we didn’t change making the accommodation that department would be in constant Five-Year Review.

Notifications have been sent out to departments whose Five-Year Reviews ended in 2014.

An updated list of minors is in the college catalog

We noticed there was not a process for minors to get into the college catalog. I asked Ron Welton about this and he explained that in his effort to put together the catalog, he had to contact each of the departments and ask about any updates to their minors. We decided it would be a good idea to email department chairs to review their minors listed in the catalogue and make sure the courses are correct. We submitted any changes that were given to us to Ron Welton.

Seamless Transfer report to EC.

CAP Committee submitted a Seamless Transfer Report before Thanksgiving 2013. The chair requested that each department review Seamless Transfer posted at the SUNY website and provide feedback where appropriate and if there were not pathways for a degree offered at Old Westbury, then to propose one. CAP committee put all departments and their responses into a report that was submitted to the Executive Committee.

Faculty Line Allocations.

CAP has not prioritized any requests for Faculty Line allocations because more information was needed regarding the lines that were approved in the last two academic years, and the information was not ready to be processed.

To make the CAP process less subjective, two CAP members (Laurie Morris and Hedva Lewittes) proposed a set of rubrics, which we are going to send to all departments during this academic year.



University Faculty Report (Caroline Sawyer)

A number of resolutions came from last Friday’s University Faculty Senate meeting that have been added to the Agenda package:

Resolution on Sexual Assault Prevention.

Resolution Requesting all State University of New York Campuses Offering Athletics Programs to Support Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Athletes, Coaches, and Staff and Prevent Anti-LGBT Bias and Discrimination in Athletics.

Resolution on SUNY Excels Performance Measurement System.

Resolution on Affordability of Textbooks and Other Instructional Materials.

Resolution on Reduction on the Maximum Working Hours for Students Assistants.

Resolution in support of expanding SUNY undergraduate research and creative endeavors.

Resolution on Naloxone Availability.

Resolution regarding LGBT oriented people is more about Athletics creating programs to support LGBT and avoid bias in this particular case.  

Resolution on naloxone availability is about the fact that campus police should be supplied with both the training and supplies to administer them in order to prevent death from heroine overdoses.  

I will say a little about the Chancellor’s presentation of the Resolution on SUNY Excels performance measurement system and you have the spreadsheet Dr. O’Sullivan gave you. We could pass our own resolution in response to the resolution from the Chancellor’s presentation on SUNY Excel. This is a draft of this resolution. The final version is not in electronic version yet, but the draft substantially shows what she wants.

She stated that campuses will be given some choice among perhaps one to two hundred metrics to choose from. There will be some uniqueness maintained. 

There were concerns expressed by the University Faculty Senate that should be reflected in the minutes when they come out from last week’s meeting.

There was concern that the metrics don’t take into consideration the cultural impact (events, performance, exhibitions) a campus generates. Also concerns that there was a lack of emphasis on what the university can do at various levels toward community building because those aspects of higher education mission are harder to quantify. There was another concern that our sector of university colleges will be particularly at risk on this.

The Chancellor said the metrics will be applied annually in presidential evaluations and presidential compensation. She began talking about it with campus presidents in December 2012. 

Somebody with long experience in SUNY stated the discussion about budgeting started 12 years ago when SUNY General Education came out.

It was stated by the Chancellor this is going to be done whether we like it or not. She also mentioned that Ohio and Tennessee public education systems are based entirely on performance base budgeting and it works well.



Rights and Responsibilities Committee Resolutions on Expanding the Bylaws Committee (Jacob Heller). 

On the attached agenda resolution about Faculty Rights and Responsibilities the date should read October 24 instead of September 19.

There hasn’t been a comprehensive review of the bylaws since 2006. There were some changes made in 2006, some changes in 2011 as well as in 2008. According to the Bylaws we are supposed to review the Bylaws every five years. On the resolution to expand the FRR Committee to form a subcommittee for reviewing the Bylaws it states that two members are not enough and we are requesting 6 members to work in this subcommittee. 

There is a lot to be done. We need to reconcile what the representation is in different places and who gets to vote. There is no adjunct representative in the senate. There are grievance polices that contradict each other in different places on the campus and it is not clear how many people get to vote in Gen Ed. There are things missing in the Bylaws, like an index, there are procedural contradictions. The plan is not to do a comprehensive overhaul but when you look at the Bylaws of other SUNY campuses they are not 30 pages long, they are 7 pages long including detailing duties and responsibilities of the Bylaws. 

We are looking at the main Bylaws to review, not the appendices, so there will not be ARPT revision.



Dr. Velsor requested to vote on the resolution, which was accepted unanimously by the Senate.



Old Business

Resolution on Governance Compensation Policy.

After a discussion, the Senate agreed to change the wording of the first paragraph of the Resolution to read as: Whereas, the Faculty Senate Chair serves as the principal faculty governance leader of the campus, and works all twelve months as a chair and as such has responsibilities and obligations which may exceed, and are at least comparable to those of Department Chairs, and.

Motion to vote on the change was approved and the change was accepted with 21 in favor, 1 opposed and 1 abstention. 

Motion to accept the amended resolution was made and accepted. And the resolution was accepted with 24 in favor, 0 opposed, and 1 abstention.                                                                                             

At Large Representative for the Executive Committee needs to be filled.

Nomination is opened for the position. 



VIII.     Announcements 

Amelia Wallace Art Gallery is showing a collection of Makonde Art and will be open until November 29, 2014.        

A faculty member expressed that no lines on the road around the Campus is a hazard and the president was willing to help on the issue but it seems to have been forgotten. A senator proposed to bring a resolution about this to the Senate floor and it will be on the official record.   

On November 6 there will be a gathering on one of SUNY Campuses. We need to go and make the statement about the funding metric issue. 

There will be a proposal at the Suffolk County ballot on November 4 to restore funds to the funding of the drinking water that has been stolen by the Suffolk County legislation. It is important to vote for it. 



Adjournment 2:40 PM







Page 7 of 7