11/4/21, 8:10 PM

COVID-19 Surveillance Testing for Vaccinated Employees Announced
David Tomanio <tomaniod@oldwestbury.edu>
Thu 10/28/2021 2:40 PM
To: Jennie D'Ambroise <dambroisej@oldwestbury.edu>

Good afternoon to the Staff and Faculty of SUNY Old Westbury,
Effective Monday, November 1, 2021, SUNY Old Westbury will begin
a surveillance testing program for all employees who are vaccinated against COVID-19 and
who have an on-campus presence this semester. This program will require each vaccinated
employee to test twice this semester -- once every four weeks for the remainder of the fall
semester beginning next week.
This surveillance testing helps protect our community by allowing us to identify positive
cases – including “breakthrough” cases in vaccinated people who may be less likely to
experience symptoms – and implement the contact tracing and isolation protocols that are
proven to reduce community spread of the virus.
Testing Location and Process
Testing will continue to be conducted by Enzo Labs in the Student Health Center Annex in
the Academic Village. One-time registration is necessary for this testing if you have
not yet tested with the campus during the 2021-2022 year. Appointments can be
made if preferable but walk-in testing is available for all registered users.
ENZO Labs uses a short nasal swab. You must bring ID and your proof of medical/health
insurance for testing. There is no cost to employees (no copay). Insurance will be used
to pay for the analysis of your samples. Registration and initial appointments can be
accessed at the following link:
Employee Registration Site
Results from Enzo Labs testing are generally available within 2-3 business days
after testing. However, the College is dependent on its partners’ ability to process tests and
cannot guarantee exact result times. Results will be uploaded to your profile on the Enzo
Patient Portal when available.
All information related to registration and testing is held as confidential information by both
Enzo and SUNY Old Westbury.
Schedule for Vaccinated Employees
Employees should have a test conducted as noted below:
Week of November 1-November 7: Last Names Beginning with A-D
Week of November 8-November 14: Last Names Beginning with E-L
Week of November 15-November 21: Last Names beginning with M-R
https://outlook.office.com/mail/inbox/id/AAQkADRmMWIxYjZmLTUxMzEtNDdmNS1iMjhkLWQ1ZjdkNDAxNzgxZQAQAN7e9PdekLBArGt329uLXjE%3D

Page 1 of 2

11/4/21, 8:10 PM

Week of November 22-November 28: Last Names beginning with S-Z
Week
Week
Week
Week

of
of
of
of

November
December
December
December

29-December 5: Last Names Beginning with A-D
6-December 12: Last Names Beginning with E-L
13-December 19: Last Names beginning with M-R
20-December 26: Last Names beginning with S-Z

Off-campus testing can fulfill this requirement. Those employees who choose to be tested off
campus must submit results from a PCR test (not a rapid test) to the College in order to
fulfill SUNY’s testing mandate. Employees using off campus testing must email their results
to hr@oldwestbury.edu no later than the Wednesday of the week after their test sample was
collected.
Complete details on this program are available on the College website.
Thank you in advance.
David Tomanio, Ph.D.
Interim Director, Human Resources

https://outlook.office.com/mail/inbox/id/AAQkADRmMWIxYjZmLTUxMzEtNDdmNS1iMjhkLWQ1ZjdkNDAxNzgxZQAQAN7e9PdekLBArGt329uLXjE%3D

Page 2 of 2