STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
                           COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY

                           Faculty Senate Meeting
                           Friday, April 22, 2016
                              12:30 – 2:30 p.m.
                                  NAB 1100

Senators Present: Kathleen Velsor (Chair), Thomas Lilly (Vice Chair/PEL),
Yogesh More (Secretary/Math/CIS),  Minna Barrett (University Senator),
Manya Mascareno (Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Jon
Kleiman (Professional), Alonzo McCollum (Professional), Ana Martinez
(Professional), Jason Kaloudis (Library), Jeffrey D’amico (Accounting), Yu
Lei (MMF),  Blidi Stemn (Childhood Education), Lauren Foxworth (Exceptional
Education),  William Gillis (Biological Studies), Young-joo Kim (Chemistry
& Physics), Amara Graf (English), Maureen Dolan (Math/CIS), Ashlee Lien
(Psychology), Shijian Li (Public Health), Peter Ikeler (Sociology), Frank
Sanacory (CAP), Ryoko Yamamoto (TLR), Jacob Heller (FRR) Amanda Frisken
(GE).

Senators Absent: Werner Sbaschnik (Parliamentarian), Lingxiang Li (Senator
At-Large), Lisa Whitten (Senator At-Large), Shalei Simms (Univ. Senator
Alternate), Laura Anker (First Year Experience) Jeanne Shimizu (Adolescence
Education), Sujani Reddy (American Studies), Juan Galvis (History &
Philosophy), Fernando Guerrero (Modern Languages), Patty Harris (Visual
Arts),  Chris Hobson (ARPT), Zenaida Madurka (HLCC).

Justified Absence: Kathleen Greenberg (At-Large Rep. to EC/ Senator At-
Large),

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Calvin Butts (President), Patrick
O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP), Mona Rankin (Executive VP), Wayne Edwards (VP
Student Affairs), Jishan Zhu (Dean, SOB).

Visitors Present: Anthony Barbera (Assistant VP, Academic Affairs), Omar
Estrada Torres (Dean of Students), E. Bouchard, Pat Smith (Registrar), Geta
Techanie (Math), Duncan Quarless (Chemistry & Physics), Sandy Kaufmann
(Institutional Research).



I. Call to Order:  12:35 pm

II. Approval of the Minutes of April 8, 2016

      • Minutes were approved by voice vote.

III. Faculty Senate Chair’s Report

      • I met with President Butts regarding Resolution on Google Apps -
        MSO 365 migration, and I reiterated importance of shared governance
        between the administration and faculty. Faculty members who served
        on the College’s IT committee were not appointed through the
        Senate. President agreed to formally request the Senate to appoint
        faculty members to serve on this committee.

      • SUNY has mandated all campuses use the DegreeWorks software
        program.

      • Middle States report is due in June 1st; if Jacob Heller or Anthony
        Barbera have requested reports from you, please submit them
        immediately.

      • Please give feedback to the Provost on his document aligning the
        College’s goals and objectives with its Strategic Plan.

      • 50th Anniversary Gala in on May 10th. Auxiliary Services Committee
        has subsidized the event, so now faculty tickets cost $100 instead
        of $200. All proceeds go to student scholarships.

IV. President’s Report

      • President Butts congratulated seniors Jawad Chaudhry and Sidrah
        Masood who each received a Chancellors Award for Student
        Excellence. The President also awarded President’s Medal in
        Scholarship to a student.

      • My Brother’s Keeper (under the umbrella of  U.S. Dept. of Energy)
        event had 130 Long Island high school students. It will strengthen
        our STEM, and help these students become entrepreneurial.

      • The State budget that was passed in Albany allocated $12 million to
        all SUNY campuses. SUNY 2020 was not approved, so there are no
        upcoming tuition increases to help Comprehensive Campuses (like
        us). We lost $5 million in total. The capital budget is a bit
        better, giving SUNY $60 million over 5 years for critical
        maintenance. However, Old Westbury received only $700,000
        increasing our capital budget to $3.1 million over 5 years. We need
        more space, especially for the Science Building. Our request plan
        to renovate the Science Building was not approved. (remove The)
        President Butts went to an emergency Chancellor’s meeting regarding
        the budget. President Butts will be writing to legislators asking
        to put money back, and will also request funding from private
        foundations.

      • SUNY Old Westbury enrollment looks good: freshman applications are
        up 4%, acceptances up 13%, those that have made deposits up 104%.
        Transfer applications are up 13%, deposits up 200%. So our work in
        growing our institution (e.g. new marketing initiatives) is working
        out, although we don’t want to become a behemoth. The spring Open
        House had 500 prospective students, more than 1000 visited – the
        largest ever.

      • SUNY has mandated DegreeWorks. This software program will help with
        retention, advising, time to completion, scheduling. It will help
        students understand what they need to graduate. The implementation
        is being directed by the Registrar and the Provost, so faculty
        should respond quickly to any of their requests.

      • Regarding the Senate Resolution on Information Technology,
        President Butts will formally ask the Senate Chair for candidates
        from the faculty to replace those on the College’s IT committee.
        The President acknowleged, “That is the way it should have been
        done. And while the introduction to MS Office 365 by Evan Kobolakis
        should have been done better, he will make himself available for
        questions on how the software works.”

      • April 28 Honors Convocation. The President urged speakers to be
        brief.

      • 50 Anniversary Gala is on May 10th. President Butts will be there,
        and hopes you will be there too.

      • May 22nd Commencement. Northwell Health CEO Michael Dowling will be
        the speaker; he was recommended by our faculty.  President Butts
        received some feedback on the choice of the speaker. In the future,
        please submit to President Butts names of speakers you would like
        to see – we seek speakers who are consistent with the mission and
        purpose of the College. President Butts stated, “I have reached out
        to the President of the United States, but he isn’t coming to Old
        Westbury.”

      • Ryoko Yamamoto (TLRC) asked, “The Senate submitted specific
        questions in the IT Resolution, and while Evan has answered some
        questions, others remain unanswered. Are we correct that we will
        get your support in getting the answers?” President Butts replied:

           “You have my support. I will call Evan myself and ask him. I
           would hope you would get the answers by next week, if not
           before. Evan is supposed to know and supposed to answer your
           questions. We must cooperate with each other. You may not like
           the answers.”

V. Provost’s Report

      • Distributed Table of Faculty and Adjunct sections. American Studies
        49% classes taught by adjuncts. Second page tells composition of
        Faculty. Senator comments:
            o “What if the numbers are not right? Table says 6 tenure track
              faculty in sociology, but there are only 5. It draws into
              question the whole accuracy of the table.” Provost O’Sullivan
              responded, “I’m going to leave that alone.”
            o “The table lists the number of adjunct sections, but what
              about number of students the adjuncts are teaching?”  Provost
              replied, “It’s fair to say that adjunct faculty class sizes
              are generally larger than those taught by non-adjunct
              faculty.”
            o “Can this document be made available electronically?” Provost
              replied, “Yes. Ask Sandy Kaufmann.”
      • Strategic Plan was sent electronically to various people. The
        Provost has not received comments from all departments, but said it
        is very easy to read – it puts together 2010-2015 strategic plan.
        This information will go into the Middle States report.
      • Senator Comment: performance based funding adversely affects
        comprehensive colleges because they disproportionately have poorer
        students. We should decide if we want to put out a statement
        indicating this stance. President Butts remarked, “I thought we
        already have taken a stand on that.” Senator commented in reply,
        “Yes, but we might want to point that out, again.”
VI. Election of Senate Chair

      • Kathleen Greenberg was elected to Faculty Senate Chair, by
        acclamation.

VII.  GEC Resolution on LEAP Essential Learning Outcomes (Amanda Frisken)

      • Senator asked, “What is the AACU?”  Another senator replied, “AACU
        has been at the forefront of setting national standards, including
        shared governance. They were the organization that put faculty in
        the forefront of handling the curriculum. They have been the most
        influential and I would argue most important national organization
        to engineer the political authority amongst the professoriate.”

      • Senator asked, “Will assessment be primarily in General Education?”
        Amanda Frisken replied, “Assessment of outcomes will be a bit of
        hybrid – both general education and departments. All we are asking
        right now is to form a team to discuss it. Honestly, I don’t know
        how assessment will be done, at the moment. We are not advocating
        more requirements; we are advocating thinking about how we deliver
        these outcomes.”

      • Friendly amendment (approved by acclamation): Senate create a joint
        faculty administration committee

      • GEC Resolution on LEAP approved by acclamation.



VIII. Bylaws Discussion (Jacob Heller, FRR Chair)

    • A change from the November 2015 version is that now the role of
      departments in liberal education committee is emphasized. Jacob
      thanked Geta Techanie, Maureen Dolan, Margaret Torrell, Chris Hobson
      for comments on this matter.

    • TLRC originated as a library committee so library member will have
      voting right.

    • Senator comments:

         o There should be reference somewhere to mission to create
           committees that reflect the diversity of membership of the
           faculty.  Jacob replied, “we don’t need to restate mission in
           every section of the bylaws; the current revision is just to
           standing committees section.

         o If a standing committee forms an ad hoc subcommittee committee,
           then the Senate Chair needs to be notified.

         o The Preamble of Section 1 which was completely deleted – misses
           the point that committees were formed historically in seeking
           tenured and untenured members. I see that in the past decade
           that has changed significantly – now most committees are made up
           of junior faculty. This has now created of situation of bylaws
           omitting administrators because untenured faculty may feel
           intimidated. Jacob’s response: “Bylaws cannot address the
           culture that senior faculty are not running for committees.
           Perhaps ARPT or departments can set expectations of service for
           senior faculty.”

         o We have to separate culture from what the bylaws can enforce.
           For example, ARPT has had to appeal to faculty to fill in vacant
           spots in recent years.

         o Can you comment on 25% necessary to win a position on a
           committee? Jacob: It means 25% of faculty that voted.

         o  Great documents of history transform how people behave. I would
           like to find some place were we make it evident our goal of
           inclusion and participation.

         o Such changes to culture perhaps belong in the preamble to the
           bylaws.

         o Jacob: we need to work not on introducing quotas but on culture.
           We want people who want to serve and do the work, not prescribe
           quotas such as equal number of groups

    • Revisions to add that committee expansion be in consultation with the
      Senate Chair accepted by acclamation.

    • The proposed changes to the Bylaws were approved, by acclamation.
      Applause followed.

IX. Curriculum and Academic Planning Committee (Frank Sanacory)

    • Resolution- MS in Data Analytics
      o This field is very hot. Other local colleges will be coming out
        with similar programs in the future. Our program will talk about
        moral and ethics. Resources are an issue: we would need new faculty
        to run.
      o Senator comments and questions:
            ▪ Can upper division students take some of the courses being
              offered? Frank Sanacory replied, “Right now, it is written as
              a straightforward program, but perhaps that may change in the
              future.”
            ▪ Why does your program have 36 credits, while most masters
              programs have 30 credits? To increase competitiveness,
              consider waiving 6 credits for certain individuals (e.g.
              undergraduates). Frank Sanacory replied, “The program teaches
              soft skills, such as speaking and teamwork, and also has an
              an internship, they add to the total. Also, it is a
              Professional Science Masters degree.”
            ▪ This program builds synergy between computer science and
              math. But it comes down to resources. In the Math/CIS
              department, there are no statisticians. Stevens Institute has
              mock up laboratory of floor of NYSE.
            ▪ The soft skills must be included in the program, especially
              in light of the college’s mission. It was distressing to hear
              a colleague argue to potentially remove the 6 credits
              covering the ethic al education courses because I’m voting
              for this version of the program because it introduces
              inclusion of ethics to application.
      o The resolution “MS in Data Analytics” was approved: 20 in favor, 0
        opposed, 0 abstentions


X. Academic Practices Committee (Peter Ikeler, APC Chair)
    • Proposal for Simplification of Transfer Residency Requirement
      o The APC has, on a case by case basis, approved waivers to the
        residency requirement.
      o No peer institutions have a semester residency requirement.
      o Senator Comment: Historical reason for including the residency
        requirement was to make students have a college experience, and as
        alumni represent Old Westbury, they should have spent minimum
        amount of time at the college.
      o Senator Comment: Students are still held up by departmental course
        offering schedule, for example Senior Seminars are only offered
        during the semester.
    • Proposal for Automatic Linkage between Pre and Post-Requisite Course
      Registration
         o Senator Comments:
               ▪ Registrar’s Office needs to be financially supported in
                 this endeavor.
               ▪ Automatic electronic deregistration may cause problems,
                 similar to financial cancellations. This proposal with hurt
                 retention.
               ▪ Prerequisite and financial cancellation are completely
                 different issues.
               ▪ We have to pick the lesser of two evils. In this
                 senator’s opinion, it is better to have students kicked out
                 a courses they are not qualified to be in.
               ▪ Inform students that on a specific day, they will be
                 dropped from courses they do not have the prerequisite in.
    • Senate moved to continue the discussion of all Proposals to the next
      Senate meeting.
    • The Proposals should have been labelled as Resolutions, and that will
      be corrected.

XI. Announcements


   Senate will send a card to Senate Chair-elect Kathleen Greenberg, whose
   daughter is ill but is expected to make a full recovery.

XII. Adjournment: 2:34pm