SUNY/College at Old Westbury
Full Faculty Meeting - Minutes

May 4, 2001

Approval of Minutes for February 23, 2001
Chair’s Report (N. Rosenthal for E. Landy)
year and notify Sheila.

Minutes were approved without amendments.
Departments should by selecting Senators for next

The Senate approved the new General Education Plan unanimously.
All faculty are invited to the next Senate meeting where a “State of the Senate” report will be
given. Eileen Landy will give her last report before becoming UUP Secretary.
Academic Vice-President’s Report (A. Bonnett)

The faculty is still doing well in spite of extrinsic factors and obstacles. It received one of 14
grants given to train math teachers better. The AVP mentioned continuing grants in the sciences
as well. In many areas the faculty continues to shine.
Challenges next year: FTE targets and other goals to meet. We can live with the General
Education plan which will evolve and improve with time. We will start graduate programs in
2002 and this will require in some instances differentials in salaries.
The AVP read a resolution asking for faculty approval of the spring graduates.
passed unanimously.
Nominations and Elections A

list of committees and nominees was distributed.

untenured for ARPT outside of VA, TE, and AS.

The measure
We need 3

We need 1 for CAP from an unrepresented

Department. We need 3 for Rights and Responsibilities and 2 for Nominations and Elections.
Nominations were then solicited from the floor. The following nominations were offered,
followed by motions to close nominations for each committee:

ARPT: Z. Madurka, B. Armandi (?), K. Miranda (more names needed here so nominations were

not closed in this case).
Faculty Resources: R. Perez
Rights and Responsibilities: This will have more work in the coming year due to the new
grievance policy. Nominated were Hegde, Meindl, Sawyer.
Senator-at-Large: Velsor, Colon-Urban

Library Committee: Shenouda

Nominations and Elections: Li, Perez, Hillery
Nominations were closed without further names for Academic Policy, ASC, CAP, Faculty

University Awards, SUNY Senate Alternate.
No one knew what the Faculty Budget Committee did and Rosenthal will ask M. Feder-Marcus
to urge candidates to run for something else.

CAP Report

The Committee processed requests for Strategic Plan lines and accepted 17 of

them plus 2 in Academic Affairs. Two Performing Arts lines were effectively approved. The
Freshman Year was moved forward with Gay Wachman doing the “‘lion’s share” of the work.
The Committee processed a couple majors (biochemistry, social studies) and minors (accounting,
and math is pending). It evaluated the General Education plan. Finally, it put out a request for
lines for the beginning of September. It was a good year with a lot of accomplishments.
President’s Report We are beyond the point of deep concern over what Newsday wrote; it
wasn’t the worst thing. We can overcome it and hope that the paper can become a partner.
We’re building a new Foundation of all new people. The Foundation did not have a formal
contract with SUNY and therefore it could not do anything with land lease.
We are working on the Strategic Plan and being flexible about it. Several Vice-Chancellors
came down and went over key areas with our Vice-Presidents. We’ve prepared answers for them
on everything from technology to priorities in academic areas. These things will continue under
discussion in Budget and Planning. We have buildings on line and we are going through the
process for the next Capital Plan. M. Dolan is leading that effort. We will continue to work with
BPC and the Executive Committee.
There has been no response yet from the Middle States team.

We believe we are in great shape.

We have the support of the Chancellor and Trustees.
Questions: Is there any chance for an institutional response to the Newsday articles? The
Chancellor requested that President Butts join him in writing an op-ed piece to counter the
Newsday articles but Newsday held it. Another response was a campus town meeting. We had
good meetings with political leaders on SUNY Day. The only conversation that was a “little off
balance” occurred with Senator Lavalle, when Dr. Butts told him that it was our mission to

recruit students in New York state who wanted a good education at a reasonable price. He
responded that Old Westbury has missed its mission, that we don’t have target populations,
we’re not after minorities anymore. The Old Westbury representatives had mentioned nothing
about minorities or target populations, so Lavalle took it to “another different place” which
suggests the need for better communication between Lavalle and Old Westbury. Dr. Butts was a
little disappointed that Lavalle took some things for granted.
We’re working on a Freshman Studies director.
cost a lot of money.

We’re working on the Business faculty, but they

One comment in Newsday that bothered the President was that he was not here, but that’s not

accurate.

He is here when he’s not away working for the College.

Budget and Planning Committee (M. Dolan)
Meetings The meeting of the BPC with SUNY

officials, scheduled for March 15", was cancelled

at the request of System Administration. The SUNY team (2 academic and 3 finance officials)
instead held “working meetings” with the college’s Vice Presidents regarding the Strategic Plan.
In the past two months there have been no other BPC meetings to discuss the Strategic Plan.
Next year the BPC plans to undertake systematic analysis to improve financial planning and the
allocation of resources. The current issue facing the BPC is the Capital Plan.
Capital Plan 2003-2008 Throughout SUNY, funding under the next Capital Plan is to be
allocated 80% for critical maintenance and 20% for “plant adaptation”. The 2003-2008 Capital
Plan is not intended for new construction.
A new process has been developed in SUNY to better integrate capital planning with
programmatic priorities. On April 18" campus representatives met with Jay Pollard of the State
University Construction Fund and architect/planning consultants retained by the Construction
Fund (William Hall Partnership of NYC). At this meeting, the Construction Fund described the
systematic and collaborative capital planning process as it exists at other SUNY campuses. The
Statewide process began in August 2000; Old Westbury appears to be about five months behind
schedule. The process at Old Westbury must be greatly accelerated, with input from all campus
constituencies.
Dr. Butts asked Maureen Dolan (Vice-Chair of the BPC) to coordinate the Capital Planning
effort, through a sub-committee of the BPC. The Capital Plan team met three times in the past
two weeks (April 24, April 27, May 4) and plans to meet weekly through June. The group will
meet regularly throughout the summer with Elizabeth Arcuri, of Scott Page Blackwell, an

educational programming firm also retained by the Construction Fund. Each campus must
produce a prioritized list of critical maintenance projects, which must be merged with a
prioritized list of plant adaptation projects to be derived from a campus “goals and objectives”
document.
The Construction Fund indicated that a May 9" deadline had originally been set for capital plan
documents from all campuses. Old Westbury’s newly formed team will work closely with the
Construction Fund and its consultants to expedite completion of its capital plan by the end of the
summer. In addition to the Chair (Dolan), the Capital Plan team includes: Ron Welton, Marc
Seybold, Lee House, two persons from Facilities Management (Ben Caraballo, Jackie Weber),
and faculty members of the BPC (Robert Hoyte, Tom DelGiudice, Maureen Feder-Marcus and
Runi Mukherji). A tentative list of 25 programmatic needs is attached to the minutes.
Energy Projects Connected to the issue of capital planning and rebuilding the physical plant, is
the issue of energy projects being planned through NYSERDA (the New York State Energy
Research and Development Authority). In view of recent Newsday coverage, and the fact that
Mr. William Howell also serves as Chairman of the Board of NYSERDA, it seems appropriate at
3

this point to briefly review the role of NYSERDA on campus. Howell’s position as Chairman is

unsalaried; his political appointment is independent of the work of NYSERDA’s career
professionals (engineers, scientists, analysts and environmental scientists).

For the past five years, NYSERDA has provided technical and financial assistance - through its
Energy Efficiency Services - to school districts, hospitals, municipalities and small businesses
throughout the state, as well as to 14 SUNY campuses (including Oswego, Geneseo, Cobleskill,
Delhi, Buffalo, Albany, Purchase). NYSERDA

funds research, demonstration and installation of

energy conservation measures and renewable energy technologies (such as solar, wind, biomass,
fuel cells). They also fund programs for environmental protection, education, community
outreach, low income assistance, and Energy Star appliances. NYSERDA has some joint
programs with EPA and the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation (such as the
Greenhouse Gas Action Plan), and also with the U.S. Department of Energy.

NYSERDA Energy Efficiency Services first came to Old Westbury in February of 1998, to offer
assistance in planning and implementing a comprehensive range of HVAC projects, including
energy conservation in all existing buildings, indoor air quality measures, and a possible solar
energy demonstration project for the Campus Center Atrium. The process by which NYSERDA

facilitates solicitation, review and selection of energy proposals is one of utmost technical rigor,

transparency and integrity.

As we move towards the goal of becoming a model campus for energy efficiency, which in itself
has considerable economic as well as environmental benefits, it should be noted that a Campus

Energy Office was established by Dr. Butts a few months ago, to coordinate energy projects and
related institutional initiatives. There is much external funding available under the umbrella of
“sustainability”. Energy projects that improve our physical plant can be linked to research and
curriculum development; interdisciplinary initiatives can involve many in the college community
through the interconnections of energy, environment, economics, technology, public policy,
ethics in decision making, consumer education and teacher education.

Last fall, Dolan reported on the NYSERDA energy projects to the Faculty Senate [see attached].
There will be more regular communications as the energy projects get underway.
Questions: Why are we behind 5 months in the Capital Plan. Dolan responded that she is not
sure. VP Smith pointed out that the campus capital plan consultant has been on campus since
August interviewing people. He stated that he didn’t know anything about a 5 month delay. The
plan was not introduced to the campus April 18 but last August. It was introduced to BPC in
August. We do have a lot of work.
DelGiudice said that he received an email in January and met with the consultant and found out
that we could have been having interviews in the fall but we did not. If the BPC had been
meeting regularly then we would have addressed the Capital Plan.
Dolan responded that this is a new process, one that needed a concerted effort over time.

General Education The Vice-Chair announced that this morning (at a special meeting) the
Senate had approved General Education. H. Lewittes added that the campus will reassume
control over courses. The GE Committee will be coming back with a plan for transfer students in
the fall. It was a good, representative committee. Compliments were offered for Lewittes and
the GE Committee.
Report on Assessment

This report will be postponed until May 18.

University Senate (M. Dolan) The Senator reported on the meeting at Cobbleskill on April 1921. Dolan gave a report on the job of University Senator. Sometimes the position is held by an

administrator. Dick Miller is a voting member of the University Senate as well as others from

System Administration. Each year there are 4 meetings.
presentation. [Sample is attached to the minutes]

Typically there is a budget

AVP Bonnett asked if Miller said anything about unfunded mandates for General Education and
Dolan responded that it did not come up at this meeting. There was an important discussion
regarding the Report of the Advisory Council on Teacher Education. The Senate applauded and
endorsed the report and supported the plan to develop an action agenda. The Senate asked for
resources to do so and Miller supported this. Teacher Education is under attack by Trustee
Candace DeRussy.. She wants the Trustees to micromanage TE programs across SUNY. Salins
said DeRussy was illogical, irrational, and intrusive.
There was support by the Senate for the Association for Governing Boards. It urged Chancellor
King to adopt a policy of having this independent association review qualifications of Trustees.
There was a resolution urging the Chancellor to oppose legislation that prohibits SUNY faculty
from serving as expert witnesses against the State in the Court of Claims.
Dolan cited a longitudinal profile of SUNY faculty by gender for the past 20 years. Overall the
number of faculty lines is down 13%. Some campuses have been especially hard hit: Oneonta
has lost 46% of its faculty in the period. There are more female faculty now than 20 years ago,
but the greatest growth is in the lower ranks.
There has been a state survey on Budget and Planning throughout SUNY. With a response rate
of 60% from Presidents, CFO’s and governance leaders, the survey discovered that 62% of
comprehensive BPC’s are chaired by faculty.
New Business Erika Ventura was badly injured in an accident. CSEA people can donate time,
but faculty cannot. Naomi will find out if we can set up a fund. We’ll send memo to faculty
soliciting funds.
Tom DelGiudice reported that the Technology Steering Committee has met and gotten results of
needs assessment: presentation classrooms (up to 20 on campus); a lot of rooms will have
internet access; new email service that will allow access from anywhere; purchase of laptops for
full-time faculty—will be used as your personal machine.

He wants faculty to put course outlines on the net and to use these machines and email. The
school will get MS Office license and Lotus Notes. There will be a new big computer lab in the
library. He wants the faculty to use all this and we’ll be “ahead of the curve” if we do. We will
be able to upload things from home for our web pages. These things will be available by
September.
Martha Livingston pleaded for workshops and training.
Ed Bever sent a memo soliciting interest in distance learning.
Anyone interested should contact Ed.

He thinks it’s a good experience.

Chris Hobson noted a series of racial incidents and a killing of a black student near Penn State.
There are student rallies on campus. Hopefully there will be a resolution coming on the 18th.