STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
SPECIAL MEETING of the Faculty Senate and Full Faculty
Friday, May 1st, 2020
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location: Zoom
Documents for this meeting and calendar of meetings are available at:
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Roster of Senators Present: ​Andrew Mattson (chair), Dana Sinclair (secretary/treasurer), Maureen Dolan
(Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris (University Senator), Michael Kavic (At Large Rep to the EC), Bonnie
Eannone (professional), Laura Anker (FY), John Estes (Senator At Large), Helidon Gjergji (Senator At-Large),
Roger Mayer (AC), Jillian Nissen (BS), Camile Jones (CP), Veronika Dolar (EN), Curtis Holland (SY), Eric
Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Edislav Manetovic (LEC), Ashok Basawapatna (TLRC), Jon Kleinman
(Professional), Erin Toolis (PY), Mervyn Keizer (EN), Do Young Park (Math & CIS), Sara Williamson (MMF),
Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez (Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Amanda Frisken (CAP), ​Zarin Mahmud
(SGA)​, Patty Harris (LEC)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: ​Barbara Hillery (Dean, SAS)
Faculty Present: ​Jennie D’Ambroise, Jillian Crocker​, Peter Ikeler​, Jason Kaloudis, Kerry Weir, Chelsea
Sheilds-Mas​, T
​ ricia Mclaughlin, Joe Manfredi
Visitors:​ ​Jacob Heller, Anthony Barbera, Parker Stephens, Jahvon Spencer-Newell, Diana Sukhram,

Gregg Rodger, Chibundu Chukuezi​,​ ​Frank Pizzardi, Zarrin Mahmud

Roster of Senators Absent​: Joseph Foy (Senator at Large), Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), William Gillis,
Jingyi Song (HP), Zenaida Madurka (ML), Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLCC), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC), Runi
Muhkerji (University Senator alternate), Blidi Stemn (CE), Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH),
Ashley Alvarado (SGA)

MINUTES

AGENDA
I. Call to Order 12:30 p.m.
II. Approval of Minutes for April 17 , 2020

5 minutes (end 12:35)

● Minutes were approved as amended
III. Chair’s Report

5 minutes (end 12:40)

1

IV. Presidents Report (Calvin Butts)

​15 minutes (end 12:55)

● The President expressed pleasure with the cooperation received from the faculty during the
spring semester, and complimented each member of the faculty. He also acknowledged Provost
Quarless’ exemplary efforts during the coronavirus emergency.
● The construction of the 1024-bed​ “alternate care facility”​ (aka hospital) on our campus was
completed by the Army Corps of Engineers. This facility takes up the Clark Center gymnasium
and all of the athletic field. The ACF location was selected because it was the best location on our
campus to connect to needed water, sewer and electric telecommunications points. While not in
use now, Gov. Cuomo has said that ours and the one at Stony Brook will stay in place through the
upcoming flu season. Sadly, our student athletes will not have access to our athletic facilities,
however, and the President stated we will work as hard as we can to make sure that we have viable
alternatives for our athletes.
● Re: The Budget: ​ The President was clear that the state’s current and foreseeable budgetary
problems would be tough on our OW budget, especially given threatening public health concerns.
● Based on the budget that passed in Albany for this upcoming year, some potential impacts on Old
Westbury budget, including cost-saving measures, are:
o no funding for 1.4 million and collective bargaining costs, which the campus will have to
absorb, followed by a 10% to a 25% reduction from that point. So we must absorb the
collective bargaining costs, and then begin to take away another 10% to 25%, which
could mean anywhere from $900,000 to 2.2 million dollars in cuts.
o loss of roughly $550,000 due to canceled events (chiefly because of the loss of the gym
and the presence of the alternate care facility on our athletic fields).
o the spending 2.5 million dollars this spring on credits and refunds for students. Those
funds are coming from both our reserves and any savings. However, we can still gain from
reduced spending this year.
o deferring the hiring of nonessential personnel through May, unless the position is deemed
critical to the college's operations.
o reviewing faculty workloads and eliminating or deferring nonessential extra service and
course releases.
o restricting travel to trips that are critical to the college's mission, academic, standing and
accreditation purposes.
o instituting emergency purchasing procedures, where routine requisition and orders will be
reviewed by both purchasing and budget offices before approval.
● Re: Cares Act Funding: ​5.5 million dollars of the stimulus funds to address COVID challenges.
Half of that amount 2.75 million must be distributed directly to students impacted by COVID in
the form of emergency grants. Emergency student grants are for expenses related to a student's
cost of attendance, such as food, housing, costs, materials, technology, healthcare, transportation,
and childcare. The remaining funds would be used by the College to cover costs associated with
significant changes to the delivery of instruction due to the coronavirus.
● Re: Fall 2020: ​As of today, we simply don't really know what fall 2020 will look like. Whether
we returned to campus for classes or continue to offer instruction remotely, will be a decision we
make in conjunction with the chancellor and state university officials who will take their lead from
the government.
● The President anticipated we will have to keep some form of social distancing in place for the fall,
although it might look a little different from what this spring has been. Some classes will be
2

●

●

●

●

offered in hybrid formats, where students will come to campus for small group instruction for one
class session, and then do the remainder of the week online.
Re: Campus Safety from COVID-19:​ In addition to instructional issues, our planning
discussions include responding to concerns like ensuring the campus is clean and disinfected
before a greater level of campus activity takes place. The question remains: how will we keep it
clean and disinfected? We also discussing whether students can reside on campus and if so, how
many? Additional questions being explored address whether we will need to modify work shifts,
so we can stagger the number of employees on site on a given day. The unions’ input as to what is
best for their members must be considered as well.
Re: Tenure Clock: ​SUNY and UUP are discussing a potential memorandum of understanding
that would provide more Time for faculty currently in the tenure review process to complete that
process. The latest version proposes providing an automatic one year extension on the clock for
faculty to complete their review. Those who don't think they need to have their time extended
would have the ability to opt out of the extended time frame and continue on with their regular
schedule. SUNY has discussed this with its chief academic affairs officers, and it seems as though
the final may require action by the SUNY Board of Trustees.
Re: End of the Academic Year: ​As announced earlier this semester, commencement has to be
postponed to a later date, to be determined based on COVID-19. The President also expressed
disappointment over having to cancel the Honors Convocation. We are limited in what we can do
because of social distancing and current CDC ban on mass gatherings. But some type of virtual
celebration of some of our best students would be nice.
Final thanks were given by the President to the Faculty Senate, the full faculty, and to Andy
Mattson for his productive leadership of the Faculty Senate. Additional thanks were given to all
who were working across campus on important issues and activities, including Middle States.

V. Provost Report (Duncan Quarless)

​15 minutes (end 1:10)

● The Provost presented to the faculty and read into the record the resolution approving the
candidates for Spring 2020 graduation. Resolution was approved by unanimous consent The
faculty were also commended for their efforts in responding to the coronavirus emergency.
● Re: Contingency Planning for Fall:​ A contingency planning committee has been empaneled
through the process of shared governance (working with the faculty senate and the broader faculty
body to identify faculty that will serve on a committee). Possible scenarios range from starting the
Fall semester with face-to-face instruction, to continuing with remote instruction. The Provost
suggested “the new pandemic plan,” consisting of anticipating face to face instruction but being
ready to pivot as quickly as we can to a remote instructional plan if circumstances warranted.
While inclined (at the time of the meeting) to inform students that our desire is to return to
face-to-face classes in the Fall, the Provost stressed that we use the time available to prepare for
providing a quality educational experience. The goal is to communicate to our students that they
will receive quality services, whether primarily face-to-face or blended.
● Re: Students Access to Cares Act Funds:​ A protocol for how students apply for financial
assistance with the Cares Act funding will be developed.
● Re: Fall operations on campus:​ Other matters to be determined include:
o Will testing be available on our campus through our student services?
o Will we internally engage in some sort of tracing-related activity to serve the campus? Will
it be done in conjunction with local public health offices?
3

o

What will social distancing look like in the NAB and in the Science building?

VI. Faculty Approval of Candidates for Graduation

​5 minutes (end 1:15)

● The graduation list was approved.

VII. University Faculty Senator Report (Laurie Morris) ​

​5 minutes (end 1:20)

● The spring UFS plenary session was virtual given the current coronavirus situation. The plenary
focused largely on the impact of COVID-19 during Spring semester. The Report was submitted,
with highlights presented.
● Despite budget concerns, ​Prodi-G​ hires will continue to be funded in AY2020-2021. The
community colleges​ are taking a bigger hit financially because their funding model has changed
from a floor model (with base funding to cover campus operations) to a fulltime enrollment (FTE)
model.
● The ​Cares Act funds​ for higher education were added to the bill following lobbying by SUNY
Chancellor Johnson and UC Chancellor Nepalitano. President Trump has also put a three month
freeze on student loan repayments for federal student loans.
● Re: Excelsior scholarships​: Students do not have to complete 30 credits this year if they can
show coronavirus circumstances interfered with their studies. They must inform financial aid if
they have a credit deficit due to COVID-19 impact.
● All but 111 of the nearly 1000 SUNY students who were out of the country in ​overseas programs
for the spring semester were brought back to the U.S. by mid-March.​ ​Those who stayed overseas
wanted to remain in place where they were. Summer overseas programs are canceled, with online
options using ​Global COIL​ as the alternative.
● Some high school students have not been able to take their SAT or AC, while others have had
delays in their scores being sent to colleges. SUNY has relaxed their policy to accommodate this.
● The ​UFS Student Life Committee ​would like our feedback on any issues we know of or have
heard about regarding problematic circumstances, situations or events experienced by students
during the pandemic, especially non academic. The committee is interested in any problems that
may have arisen or that students are dealing with, especially any negative impacts with students,
including Asian students.
● The Senator informed the faculty that she was on the ballot to run for a second term as University
Faculty Senator, expressing the desire to continue serving and representing the College.

VIII. UUP Report- (Martha Livingston)​

​5 minutes (end 1:25)

● We have asked every UUP member to get involved in the fight for the kind of funding that we
need to have this college not really take a big hit in the middle of the budget crisis. A request send
automatic letters to Congress to ask for funding was sent to the faculty.
● Re: Salary Increase/Collective Bargaining costs: ​ UUP president stated: It is always the case
that campuses will say we don't have the money to pay for your raises and it is always the case
that SUNY and you up need to go to the state and say, give us the money and it is always the case
that we get the money because they (the state) are legally obligated.
4

● Re: Extra Service Compensation:​ UUP has been talking to SUNY, about certain categories of
members who have been working way more than our salaries normally cover. Three candidate
groups extra service compensation are:
o adjuncts, who have really done extraordinarily amazing work to move their courses online;
o IT staff; and,
o members in hospitals, who were mandated to do overtime and yet have not yet been paid
overtime.
UUP will continue campaigning for additional funding for the above-named personnel.
● Re: ARPT files:​ Keeping electronic files secure is a concern and ongoing conversation.
● Announcement:​ We're going to have our next virtual UUP general membership meeting at noon
next Tuesday. All are welcome. Also, on Tuesday at 2:30 p.m. there will be what we call a sort of
an office hour for those unable to attend at noon.
IX. Ad Hoc OER Committee Report (Joanne Spataro)

​5 minutes (end 1:30)

● The Report was submitted and aspects of the report were highlighted
● This semester, we had ​21 OER courses​ that we know of that were registered.
● Six faculty incentive stipends totalling $4,000 were awarded for new course developments. Five
stipends were awarded at the adopt level for $500 each, and one was awarded at the Create level
for $1500. We held two campus events. A faculty roundtable, co-sponsored by the ad hoc OER
committee and the TLRC committee, was also held.
● OER Defined​:​ ​Learning and research materials that reside in the public domain or have been
released under an intellectual property license that permits repurpose, and by others.
● Funding was included in the Governor’s new budget to include another $8 million for OER
support OER for another year: 4 million for CUNY and 4 million for SUNY.​ However, ​that
amount can be adjusted or reduced pending upcoming budget adjustments.
X. Faculty Questions, Concerns, Announcements ​

​30 minutes (end 2:00)

● Mike Kinane:​ ​Faculty members have received two or three emails from Danielle Collins on my
team. We are trying to put together a video will be released to the graduates on the morning of
what would have would been Commencement. We would like to fill that video with very short
congratulations from faculty members. I will ask Danielle to send another email this afternoon. If
you are not comfortable doing it on your own, there will be office hours where faculty will be
recorded through zoom. We are hopeful you will wear colorful regalia so that graduating seniors
get a sense of what they're going to experience when we do get together for Commencement.
● Joe Manfredi:​ ​A resolution is coming from the American Studies Media Communications
Department, requesting additional compensation for adjunct faculty for extraordinary service
during the pandemic.
XI. Adjournment

(at 2:30)

5