Chair’s Report 12-17~O44
On Agenda:

Two items for Old Business

Resolution on MR II by SGA

Resolution on the AV sponsored by H&L

Re minutes: AVP’s MR II reports attached to 12-3 minutes reflect incorporation of
information on communication with Governance.

1.

2.

Faculty Senate Executive Committee (EC) met on 12-6 and 12-13.

Met with the BPC 12-17 at 10 a.m. Report on Capital Plan (construction projects)
submitted by Tom DelGiudice will go out with today’s minutes.

EC submitted a memo to BPC requesting documents and reports to Senate.
circulate with today’s minutes.

Will also

3.

OSSD. Plea from W Lupardo that recommendations and resolutions have not been
acted on. EC is scheduled to meet with AVP next week (Wed. 12/22) to discuss and
then take up with the President.

4.

President Butts offered to meet with the EC 12-8, but we had to decline, owing to
teaching commitments.

5.

Report on Chancellor’s visit:
e

e

Ata breakfast in the Student Union, with a full catered buffet, Chancellor King

gave a Powerpoint presentation on the SUNY system and took questions. Later in
the day, he went to a meeting in Manhattan where, according to news reports, he
did not propose a tuition increase.
Visit to Academic Village. After seeing leaking sewage pipes, black mold, leaks,
a room with excessive heat that cannot be turned off, and gaping ceiling holes,

Chancellor King pronounced the Academic Village “the worst building he has
seen in the SUNY system,” (there are some buildings he has not seen). He had
visited the building before, but he said he had not been aware that the building

housed the majority of classes and the majority of faculty offices. At the

Chancellor’s meeting with the College Foundation, Bill Kimmins reported on

e

current plans to improve the AV.

Ina short but engaged meeting with 12 faculty members, including the Senate
Chair and Vice Chair/ University Senator, the Chancellor explained how the

College’s commitment for fund-raising would be established. He will look at the
institutions we have indicated as peers in Mission Review II and hold us
responsible for raising half the difference between their external funding and ours.
In an earlier meeting with the College Foundation and College Council members,
he had stressed that external funds would have to be raised to meet campus needs,
5.

as the state was not going to increase its contribution.

In the meeting with faculty, the Chancellor stated that the President’s Five-Year
Review was complete for him to read and discuss with the President, but he had not
done so yet.

He acknowledged faculty concerns about retention, administrative bloat,

and morale, and said he understood the need for improvements to campus

administration and leadership.
6.

Three applicants for the Faculty Senate secretary position were interviewed, but none

met our standards. The earliest date the opening can be posted again is January 15.
Senate representatives and, especially, faculty committee chairs, should inform the
Senate Chair of immediate needs they have from the Senate Office. Until a secretary
is hired, the Chair will staff the office Tuesday and Thursday mornings during the
regular semester; Monday and Wednesday afternoons in the January term. If you

receive mail at the office, let the Chair know if you would like it forwarded to your
department address.

Announcements:

Faculty and other members of the campus community are encouraged to contribute to the
scholarship fund for Jermaine Camp, established by Senate resolution at the last meeting.
The next University Faculty Senate conference will take place in Albany January 28-29.
M. Dolan, R. Mukherji, and C. Sawyer to attend.

Next Senate meeting is February 4. Happy holidays!