SUNY Old Westbury Response to the white paper “SUNY General Education for
the 21st Century”
11/9/2018

The SUNY white paper General Education for the 21st Century reports on the
findings of a Task Force set up to examine General Education programs
throughout the system. Its conclusions and recommendations are based on an
environmental scan of current programs and an analysis of feedback
generated by groups reviewing the paper.

Old Westbury has been asked to respond to these findings.

Introduction

The white paper has been reviewed by the College’s Liberal Education
Committee (previously the General Education Committee), which supports and
maintains both SUNY and College-wide curricular requirements. This response
was drafted by the Committee’s Chair Prof. Patricia Harris and Director of
Academic Assessment, Prof. Hedva Lewittes. The paper and our response will
be discussed by the Old Westbury Faculty Senate on November 16, 2018.

Overall, the Task Force’s white paper provides a comprehensive overview of
General Education throughout SUNY in relation to both the Middle States
Committee on Higher Education (MSCHE) standards and the Association of
American Colleges and Universities’ (AACU) Liberal Education and America’s
Promise (LEAP) learning outcomes.  Old Westbury’s campus-based
Liberal/General Education program is characterized fairly and positively in
this review. The white paper also lays the groundwork for on-going and
future initiatives in our program development and assessment.

Status of Old Westbury Regarding Learning Objectives

In 2000-2002, the Old Westbury General Education Committee developed a
program that was approved by SUNY as meeting the General Education
Requirements (GER); it comprised 10 knowledge areas and two competencies.
Since then, the Old Westbury program has been revised several times, most
recently in 2014.

    • A chart in the white paper cross-listing SUNY GER and MSCHE categories
      shows how each SUNY learning outcome relates to a Middle States
      educational objective. The Old Westbury program with 10 domains that
      match SUNY’s and an additional eleventh that is part of our Liberal
      Education requirement meets all 14 of the areas mandated by SUNY GER
      and identified by MSCHE.
    • Old Westbury, along with Geneseo and New Paltz, is among the top 3
      comprehensive colleges that fully comply with Middle States’
      identified learning outcomes.

Middle States and Assessment

In 2011, the Middle States review team was specifically interested in – and
positively evaluated – Old Westbury’s assessment of our General Education
program. In its recently revised standards, Middle States now clearly
expects yearly collection of assessment data. Beginning in 2000-2002, Old
Westbury implemented a process of assessing student learning outcomes in
parallel with our evolving General Education program. We adopted procedures
as prescribed by SUNY that involved a cycle of assessing all the domains
and competencies over several years. Following this SUNY system model, Old
Westbury conducts assessments of General Education learning outcomes every
year. As recognized in the 2018-23 Old Westbury College Strategic Plan,
assessment of General Education has been and continues to be in full
compliance with Middle States standards.

National Initiative for Institutional Learning Outcomes (ILOs)

LEAP,  introduced in 2005 by the AACU, identified the concept of “Essential
Learning Outcomes”:

      • Knowledge of Human Cultures and the Physical and Natural World;
      • Intellectual and Practical Skills
      • Personal and Social Responsibility
      • Integrative and Applied Learning

Old Westbury deemed the LEAP Essential Learning Outcomes to be aligned with
the College’s mission and guiding principles, and in 2016 the General
Education Committee drafted a resolution to adopt these learning outcomes
as ILOs for Old Westbury. This resolution was passed by the Faculty Senate,
and continues to be implemented.

The LEAP initiative also includes a set of “Valid Assessment of Learning in
Undergraduate Education” (VALUE) rubrics. In 2018, Old Westbury’s Community
Action, Learning and Leadership (CALL) program revised the outcomes in our
CL 2000 Community Learning Seminar and Placement course to correspond to
the VALUE Civic Engagement rubric and a pilot assessment of Spring 2018
data has begun. A plan to utilize the AACU’s Ethical Reasoning VALUE Rubric
to assess an assignment in Old Westbury’s First Year Experience (FYE)
Seminar has also been proposed.

General Education Trends Among LEAP Institutions:

The SUNY white paper lists 5 areas that go beyond basic requirements and
the percentage of SUNY institutions in which they are required or optional
as follows:

                             required        optional
First Year Experiences                  60%        31%
First Year academic experiences   52%        30%
Global or world culture studies   52%        41%
Orientations to liberal education 42%        23%
Diversity studies and experience  34%        53%


Old Westbury is among the institutions that include requirements in all
these areas. As these percentages show, we continue to take the lead among
SUNY campuses in offering an expanded General Education curriculum.

Ongoing Initiatives and Future Plans

The Liberal Education Committee has set up a schedule for the continuing
assessment of SUNY students learning outcomes in domain areas, as well as
the ongoing review of GE course syllabi within domains.

The next cycle of critical thinking assessment is slated for 2020. The LEC
has discussed assessing this college-wide competency along with writing as
part of an expanded process of assessing ILOs. A working group will be
established to decide on best practices for this assessment and will
explore the possibility of utilizing LEAP Critical Thinking and Integrated
Learning VALUE rubrics.

The SUNY white paper recommends that students should be educated regarding
the General Education programs on their campus. We intend to pursue both
qualitative (focus group interviews) and quantitative (survey) data
collection to understand what students know about and how they evaluate our
GE Program. Building on this research, perhaps working with our Teaching
and Learning Resources Committee, the FYE and CALL programs, and Student
Affairs, the LEC may develop strategies (workshops or events) to increase
student understanding of the learning outcomes, domains and offerings in
our Liberal Education program.