STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK
COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
February 21, 2020
12:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Location S -1000
https://sites.google.com/site/oldwestburyfacultysenate/archive
Roster of Senators Present: Andrew Mattson (chair), Christa Devirgilio
(secretary/treasurer), Maureen Dolan (Parliamentarian), Laurette Morris
(University Senator), Michael Kavic (vice chair), John Estes (Senator At Large),
Curtis Holland (SY), Eric Hagan (VA), Alireza Ebrahimi (FRRC), Ashok Basawapatna
(TLRC), Lisa Payton (AS), Ana Martinez (Professional), Deepa Jani (EN), Ryoko
Yamamoto(CAP), Lina Gilic (EE), Sara Williamson (MMF), Erin Toolis (PY), Xavier
Marechaux (AE), Roger Mayer (AC), Laura Anker (FY)
Non-Voting Members of the Senate: (Provost), Raj Devasagayam (Dean SOB),
Frank Pizzardi (VP Enrollment) Amanda Frisken (Dean SAS), Wayne Edwards (VP
Advancement), Diane Sukhrum (Dean SOE)
Visitors: Jacob Heller, Ed Bever, Evan Kobalakis, Chelsea Shields-Mas, Nicholas
Werner, Frank Sanacory, Martha Livingston
Roster of Senators Absent: Kathleen Velsor (Senator at Large), Runi Mukherji
(University Senator alternate), Sonia Assa(ML), Bonnie Eannone (Professional),
Kathleen O’Connor-Bater (HLC), Peter Ikeler (APR), Elizabeth Morphis (SLC),
Christopher Hobson (ARPT), Shijian Li (PH), Jon Kleinman (Professional), Blindi
Stemm (CE), Jillian Nissen (BS), Ashley Alvarado (SGA), Camille Jones (CP), Edslav
Monetovic (LEC), Veronika Dolar (PEL), Jingy Song (HP), Gjergji Helidon (At Large
Rep to the EC)
Draft Minutes
I.

Call to Order 12:30 p.m.

II. Chair’s Report
− Committee Appointments: The Faculty Senate Chair fills committee
vacancies that become vacant during the academic year.
− Student Life Committee (SLC): One vacancy filled.
o Dr. Kerry Weir (SOE) will serve for the remainder of this academic
year.
− Liberal Education Committee (LEC): The Humanities Representative has
stepped aside creating an open s eat.

o Dr. Danielle Lee (English, Visiting Assistant Professor) will serve as
the new Humanities Representative for the remainder of this
academic year.
− Presidential Search Committee Membership is Complete: the Chair of
the College Council Mili Makhijani shared the final list of committee
members:
College Council
Paul Patton
Mili Makhijani
Foundation
Theresa A. Regnante
Magdy Shady
Honorable William A. Hohauser
Faculty
Phillip E. Elliott
Laura Anker (SAS/FYE)
Chancellor’s Senior Staff
Jermaine Archer (SAS/AS)
(voting)
Thomas DelGiudice (SAS/PEL)
Theresa Miller
Ashlee Lien (SAS/PY)
Chancellor’s Liaison (nonShalei Simms (SOB/MMF)
voting)
Sanja Cale (SOE/EE)
Student
Alumni
Jalen Natera
Lionel Chitty
Academic Dean
Diana Sukhram (Acting Dean SOE)
Professional/Support
Len L. Davis
Admin Support (non-voting)
Lillian Colella
III. Provost’s Report, Duncan Quarless
− Expressed thanks to faculty and professional staff as well as students;
− Reminded faculty that honors college awards will be in April;
− We submitted to SUNY our nominees for the SUNY Chancellor's Award for
Student Excellence, and we will hear back to see if our students receive it.
Thanks to everyone for answering nominations
− Expressed thanks to joint task force for securing applied learning grant,
including a component of the budget for that grant is allocated to support
students in applied learning. Co-chairs of the task force have sent out an
application for those engaged in applied learning and seeking funding
support. If you do not receive an application and you have some interest
please reach out.
− Expressed thanks to another collaborative group that addresses college debt
for students: Open Educational Resources (OER) and applied learning. A
conservative estimate, based on a quick analysis, at the end of this year, our
OER courses have saved students 154,000 dollars. Also, a shout out to the
department of psychology: every section of Introduction to Psychology is run
as an OER class.
− Re: Student course evaluations – We are paying for a luxury, power
platform, but we are not using any of the luxury features. An implementation
team, researched various options, we then chose Blue and have now had it

−

−

−

−
−
−
−
−
−
−

for 2 years and there has been nothing more that has been done with it
beside implementing
if it is the intention of the faculty to use only the bare bones, then what he
needs to ask us to do is to save the college money. In a couple of weeks he
will ask for help in that regard, he suspects we will have to pay for it for an
additional year and after that we will have to figure something else out.
Re: Middle States Accreditation, Jacob Heller (Co-Chair) – Middle States
co-chairs will be reporting at every Senate meeting. we have been making
excellent progress, reviewing additional chapters, which will be forwarded to
Middle States Evaluation Chair. The Middle States campus visit will be in
Spring of 2021; Thanks were expressed to everyone on MS working groups.
Part of what we need to do is supply data. One of the central items is
assessment: we have institutional assessment; we need to upgrade academic
assessment. We are now required to have learning outcomes for every
program on the campus.
Two people will be taking over as Assessment Coordinators March 10th. They
will go to Philadelphia and come back ready to train faculty. March 30th 31st we will conduct trainings.
Duncan Quarless also wanted to express thanks to those who are
supporting academic achievement.
Question from the gallery: last meeting there was an update about the
census, we met our grad student target by 3 and 35 in undergrad. We are
essentially whole in our enrollment predictions in spring
In fall we were at our target but down by 80,000 and Heller would like to
thank all those who worked on recruiting students
Duncan Quarless gives thanks for what is being done outside of the academic
year. What we do in the winter sessions and in summer is important as far as
course offerings go.
A Faculty member appreciates the sentiment and states that she feels that
financially cancelling students is not the way we should be going about
creating a place where more students wish to go, sends the wrong message.
Financial cancellation committee have begun to address the issues involving
this topic.

IV. Approval of Minutes for February 7, 2019
− Motion to approve minutes was seconded. Misspellings were noted.
− Minutes as amended approved by voice vote, without dissent.
V. University Faculty Senator’s Winter 2020 Plenary Report, Laurette
(Laurie)Morris
− A copy of the Winter 2020 Plenary Report was included in materials for the
Senate meeting, as well as sent electronically to senators and faculty.
− The Winter 2020 Plenary (January 20-22, 2020) at University of Albany. The
main topic was the budget. The plenary report included numerous figures
and expressed budget requests by SUNY and the Chancellor, including:
o $6 billion deficit NYS deficit;

−
−

−

−

−

−

−

−

o money requested by SUNY:
▪ to cover the NYS TAP Gap (ap. $80B);
▪ to cover hospital, Medicaid-related costs to the SUNY
hospitals/medical centers (ap. 100 million);
▪ for upgrading teaching spaces into laboratory spaces, AND, for
new academic buildings;
▪ for Provost investment Funds awards (PIFs); AND,
▪ to cover salary negotiated salary increases.
Governor Cuomo also indicated in his State of the State address that he
would like to increase the maximum Excelsior Award as well as EOP funding.
We need to lobby the Governor for more money for SUNY for these things as
well as student support services. Also, SUNY Chancellor Johnson stressed
public-private partnerships as a means of both savings for SUNY and
leverage for SUNY’s negotiations with the Governor for funding.
Laurie Morris proposed four areas where Provost Investment Funds (PIFs)
may have a good likelihood of startup funding support from SUNY Admin:
academic programs, student support services, anything IT related, and
proposals related to sustainability.
Re: Enrollment concerns, SUNY Provost Laursen presented data from 2017,
indicating SUNY enrollment decrease of 1% was twice the rate of decline in
NY State private schools (which was .5%); however, our we were a little bit
ahead of the national rate however. Graduate student enrollments were up
across the system by 2.5% in person and online. Chancellor and Provost
want the ap. 40,000 NY state residents who are students in a non-SUNY
online degree program.
SUNY Online Initiative continues into its second semester: 20 programs
(Associate’s. Bachelor’s and Master's degrees), across 11 SUNY campuses, all
upstate. The current advertisements for the SUNY Online Initiative is
attracting students interested in both online and traditional (in-classroom)
SUNY programs. Of note: Stony Brook (as of Fall 2020) will be the only
downstate campus participating in the initial rollout of SUNY Online.
Elsevier update: According to Mark McBride, Elsevier has been playing
hardball with us (SUNY), as well as with the University of California system.
As of January 1, 2020, the SUNY contract with Elsevier has been extended for
another three months. Also, there is a new person at Elsevier in charge of
negotiations. Representatives from the University Centers have also become
involved in the negotiations, with representatives from other sectors to join
in later if necessary. Stay tuned for Spring update.
Good News: Every time the Chancellor gives a report she always ends with
good news, where she reports on achievement or events happening at
various SUNY campuses. Laurie Morris stressed OW should let the
Chancellor know of good new as pertaining to our campus. For example, the
SUNY Undergraduate Research Conference (SURC) is scheduled for April 24th
at Old Westbury. We should invite her to come.
Only one resolution coming out of the Winter 2020 Plenary : UFS
Resolution in Support of SUNY- and CUNY-Friendly 2020-2021 Budget.

This resolution asks the Governor and NYS Legislature to increase the share of
SUNY and CUNY operating budget that is covered by public funding instead of
student tuition, fully fund SUNY and CUNY critical maintenance needs and
capital projects, and establish a SUNY endowment. It also asks that SUNY UFS
expand its coordination with governance bodies and union chapters across SUNY
and CUNY in budget advocacy. ( For: 36 / Against: 0 / Abstain: 0)
VI. Update from UUP, Martha Livingston
− First member general meeting, lunch will be served.
− We are having a rally. Everyone is invited. We will be gathering between the
campus center and the NAB if no rain; we will be in the campus center if
there is rain. We need to make a fight. The Chancellor may be doing
wonderful things, however, she is not doing all that she can for SUNY, as
tuition rates go up. We need to fight against funding SUNY on the backs of our
students.
− Labor council meeting, Martha is a delegate.
− The Joseph S. Murphy Scholarship in Labor. Funding at both the
undergraduate and graduate level: A stipend as well as free tuition BA in
labor studies or MA;
− Mark your calendars: March 25th, anniversary of the riangle shirtwaist
fire – where146 mostly immigrant female workers lost their lives. There
will be a memorial at Washington place in Washington Square Park New
York City.
− Action Piece, coalition of labor group principally based in Florida.
Immokalee have been fighting for years to get better wages and working
conditions for the people who pick our crops and they wage a campaign
where they demand the major customers of tomato crops to promise to pay 1
penny more a pound of tomatoes. One by one supermarkets and fast food
chains have signed up except for Wendy’s.
− They are doing a 3-day march ending at Wendy's headquarters. It will be a
great experience if you can go. It’s wonderful opportunity for solidarity.
Thursday March 12th.
− There is ongoing puzzlement about how on earth the compression/inversion
funding was awarded. It would seem arbitrary at first glance, however, there
was a proprietary algorithm. Anyone who was a UUP’er who feels as if this
was not justified, there was a survey sent out. For every 10, we have gotten 1
thoughtful response.
VII. Old Business
− Presidential Search: comments following 2/7 Special Meeting
− Search committee met today, a lot of people called in because it was
scheduled at the last minute, a lot of faculty. They continued the discussion of
characteristics and a longer meeting a week from Thursday has been
scheduled
− Urges everyone to fill out the form/questionnaire online

− Mostly Alumni and students have answered 600 responses back
− The meeting on the 28th is the kickoff meeting.
− Two members on the committee are from the chancellor's office. One voting
Teresa Miller and one non voting
− Also issue with discretion and confidentiality within the process. Chancellor
will be here on Friday. And will give the charge to formally open.
− Can we look at what other schools have done for the slot of professional staff
on the committee as well as non voting members
− The only non-voting member of the committee is Paul Patton. Administrative
support is from Old Westbury HR.
− Chair of college council has immediate jurisdiction over search committee
− Someone feels we need to object to the notion that professional and support
staff have zero representation.
− In the SUNY guidelines the college council chair will seek advice as to who
should be on the committee however it is all up to the chair, she/he has the
final say
− Solicitation of names should happen publicly, and she makes a decision and
sends names to the Chancellor's office.
− Due to her sudden appointment, the process was not followed to the letter.
− Faculty governance had no say besides the faculty representation.
− Someone thinks it would be good for the chair of the faculty senate to keep
lines of communication open.
− The only person, who might listen to us, is the person who is in charge of the
university faculty senates, Gwen Kay. if us in faculty governance choose to go
forward with this. that we are not happy with this process. They may not
change anything but maybe for the benefit of future searches at other
campuses.
− Before the chair makes a comment, someone suggests the faculty should take
a vote.
− It would have to be a formal conversation, to see if professional staff is
adequately represented. Have a conversation without a resolution is first
step
− Open Access Policy
− Policy we will vote on as well as the resolution which are in the packet
− The policy was presented last semester and all that is needed is a vote, SUNY
mandated that all campuses create an open access policy.
− Discussion was open and a motion was granted.
− Motion to approve Open Access Policy was seconded and approved
unanimously, without dissent.
IX. New Business
− Shared IT Governance Committee Update (Curtis Holland)
− We want stronger faculty representation on IT governance matters and
encourage any faculty to get talking about any issues they have that they
wish to be discussed.
− They want to be more representative of the faculty in those meetings

− In the last meeting, They are working on replacing the projectors in the
classrooms, 4 companies will be tested out to see which one is better, not in
science building but NAB
− Also new PC’s will come with DVD players built in. Again, not in science
because we hope it will be replaced in renovation.
− The contract runs out next year for blackboard, it is not clear if it will be
replaced or not. SUNY has authority on that, doesn't matter what we think.
− Blackboard has offered to do a demo of blackboard analytics. Will mostly
affect, taking data from online classes.
− Some feel they should have gotten more feedback and it should have been
discussed more so there has not been and final decisions made.
− There are some technical issues the gallery raised. They encourage you to
bring them to the meeting. SUNY wide committee
− This campus started with Blackboard, a plea was put in that should we
migrate or even if we don’t, more workshops should be offered to help
people use the software.
− CAP: Faculty Line Requests
− An email went out, former and current chair of CAP were there, in your
packet after the policy document, you will see a document in small type,
horizontal one page, there is a box around the number 1 g, the place in the
bylaws that says CAP needs to deal with blind requests. Cap was going to get
back into the business that departments contact them.
− Been in the bylaws, Form that was sent out to department chairs was created
in the fall. Equity. Public care needs. alignment with departmental mission.
external opportunities.
− The gallery reinforced the importance of what was said, faculty needs to see
the importance of CAP, which needs to take a college wide view.
− CAP is the only ongoing committee that has not been altered or merged
− One person has experience
− Does this have anything to do with replacing the blinds? Are you making
decisions that would override the budget? If a department has negotiated a
budget item, will CAP change that? No, CAP only makes recommendations.
− Library Advisory Group (Christa DeVirgilio)
− In your packet, they are not asking a lot, the group will meet once or twice a
semester and act as an advisory board for faculty and the library group will
support faculty with library service. Looking for 2 student representatives, 2
faculty from arts and science 1 from business, 1 from education 2 from
library and library director. Who are library forward conscious people
− Update on Campus Green Committee (Maureen Dolan)
− Green committee is back up and running,
− If anyone else wants to join, we are sending information to the whole college
community.
− Very much aware of the chancellor's vision for new energy. Reforming the
energy vision.
− Some of the students that are in this group have entered a contest, about
transforming tomorrow and how the envision climate solutions. 200 dollar

prize for anyone who addressed impact on communities of color and low
income communities.
− A model in higher ed, Just met on Tuesday. You may not realize that a few
months ago the governor signed an act, that's called the CLCP climate
leadership and community protection, with 100’s of millions in funding.
Many more initiatives will be signed.
− Right now, we are just getting up and running.
− Second to last clause, emphasis on it
X. Sharing of Concerns/Announcements
− Looking for faculty and staff for SURC event on April 24th, as well as
conference proposal submissions due March 13th.
− Applied learning joint task force is looking for students engaged in applied
learning. 15,000 dollars is available. We need to spend it all so if you know
any students. There is an application online.
XI. Adjournment

2:30p.m.