SUNY/ COLLEGE AT OLD WESTBURY
FACULTY SENATE MEETING
Friday, May 7, 2004
12:30 - 2:30 pm
Present
Senators: K. Velsor, C. Sawyer, E. Linger, M. Dolan, J. Conforti, M.
Colaneri, C. Franco, I. Anmed, A. Martinez, A. Barbera, M. Metlay, J.

Lloyd, M. Keefe, M. Crocitto, G. Snedeker.
Ex officio: L. Cox, J. Haynie.
Visitors: P. O’Sullivan, W. Jiang, J. Achstatter, D. Moon, J. Fornaro, J.

Biondo, E. Bever, N. Sacks, S. Mundy, S. Kaufmann, E. Gomez-Nieto.

Minutes of April 16
On p. 4: the company is Auvdiovox (not Audio Box).
Discussion:
On p. 2, the number reported by Dr. Butts stating that 98% of first-year students surveyed

state that Old Westbury was their third choice is not correct; the correct survey number
is 51%. However, that was a simple mis-statement, not an error in the minutes. The
minutes were approved as corrected.

Report of the Chair by K. Velsor
There is a change in the order of the agenda for today’s meeting.

The Chair thanks everyone for participation in the meetings and for the work of the Faculty

Senate.
We can share a sense of success insofar as we tackled many issues that have been unresolved
for many years.
For the ongoing issues of the OSSD, Dr. Cox’s office has taken charge of getting a handbook
out for the fall with expectations regarding students with special needs.
We have seen plans for repairing and maintaining the physical plant and upkeep of buildings

in reports by both Tom DelGiudice and Mike Kinane.

We have a meeting with President Butts next week to prepare for the work of the salary
equity committee.
The Chair thanks the executive committee for all the support over the past year.
A note on the exam schedule — it has come to the attention of some faculty that several are

not offering the final exams on the days they are supposed to, which causes problems for

both students and other faculty.
Next semester’s final exams, related to 8 am classes and the timing of the semester, will

continue to Dec 21*.

Discussion:
Caroline Sawyer proposed that we formally thank Kate for the work of leading the Faculty

Senate over the past year. The proposal was approved with sustained applause.

Report by Academic V.P. L. Cox:

Dr. Cox also thanks Dr. Velsor for the hard work and the legacy she has left.

Congratulations to entire Faculty Senate for keeping things running.

The past year has been a whirlwind of activities. Four committees were created and we now
have a release time policy.
Academic scheduling is strictly an addendum to what we already do.

Summer school — department chairs brought up increasing the salaries for summer courses to

$3000 per course for fulltime faculty vs. the $2400-2700 paid in the past.

The last count showed registration of 8800 summer hours, while we were hoping for 9000

hours. If we make the 9000, we can go to the $3000 pay.

:

If you desire to set up a course, contact the office because Academic Affairs is trying to
increase the summer enrollment and summer advising schedule.
Graduation — it is so important for faculty to attend the graduation.

NCATE is still ongoing — please contact Dr. Judy Lloyd if you can be around to help meet
the June 30 deadline.

Graduate school education has an impact on undergrad education.

If Old Westbury goes in

the direction of not having a graduate institution, we will lose revenue. Having the grad
school also helps increase the image. All the College will benefit from the new grad
programs in the School of Business.
Discussion:

Resolution on anonymous letters

From Steve Pryor there is a resolution attached to the minutes regarding the despicable letters
regarding A.V.P. Cox.
Caroline Sawyer finds objectionable the implication that these letters are being circulated by
faculty members. C. Sawyer proposes instead, “The Faculty Senate condemns the recent
anonymous letters circulated about Dr. Lawrence Cox. Such reprehensible acts as

sending these letters have no place in the Old Westbury Campus Community.”
Vote: 17 for; 0 opposed; and 0 abstentions for the Sawyer proposal.

Report from the Committee on Academic Policy by M. Colaneri
A resolution was distributed on the Letters of Intent for two MS degrees, one in Finance and
the other in Taxation.
Discussion:
Question: Where will money come from or what will be the impact on other undergraduate
programs?
Answer: Faculty Senate approved in June 2000, and this is a detailed capitulation of the
proposal.

Question: How would this have impact on undergraduate enrollment in the School of
Business?

Answer: Undergraduate courses are the prerequisites for the MS programs. We have a

responsibility.to meet needs of students who want the M.S.
Answer also by Dean O’ Sullivan: Action by the School of Business is based on assessment
and outside advice: only one area does not provide a critical mass of students in the
graduate courses. We began to prepare in 1999-2000 and we now have the faculty in
place, the technology in place, so no major new outlet for funding is required.
Vote: 13 for; 0 opposed; and 1 abstention for the resolution on the Letters of Intent for two
new MS degrees.

Report on Health & Safety by Student Affairs V.P. J Haynie
Susan Mundy answers calls for emergency (ext. 3333), and, in turn, calls the Health Center
who get equipment ready and respond.
Discussion of the fibrillator — the Health Center was pleased to have those machines.
Personal recommendation is to have two people on each floor of every building trained
to do CPR and use the emergency equipment 24 hrs/7 days per week.
We have four doctors, but they are there a total of only 10 hrs, and nurses are on duty 72
hours. For students in the fall semester, we will put a doctor in an office in the old dorms
for 20 hours, making a total of 28-30 M.D. hours per week.
For emergencies - we should inform the campus of the protocol for emergencies. The 911
teams will respond only to calls from the campus security, not from anyone else, so the

first place to call is 3333.

University Senator report by M. Dolan
At the April 22-24 Plenary Meeting of the University Faculty Senate in Syracuse, much of
the meeting was devoted to discussion and debate on the revised Assessment plan.
Among the concerns raised: the lack of an academic rationale for system-wide

assessment; the burden on campus budgets and faculty workloads ofan added layer of

data collection; and the possible misuse of campus-specific data.
A revised resolution has been endorsed by Council of Community Colleges, the student
assembly, and the UUP. It passed the statewide Faculty Senate with a vote of 33 to 6,

with five amendments (funding, local campus implementation, reimbursement of faculty
time, panel of experts or advisory GEAR (General Education Assessment Review), and
a review of policies relating to distinguished faculty.

Chancellor’s report — A bill endorsed by the Chancellor is pending before the state

legislature, to add a 17" member to the SUNY Board of Trustees; this new Trustee

would be the University Faculty Senate President. The Chancellor announced his
support for a new policy to lock in for 4 years the tuition at any SUNY comprehensive

college or University Center. In response to questions from the Senate floor about how

tuition would be treated for transfers from community colleges or 2-year Colleges of

Technology, the Chancellor said he would also support extending locked-in tuition for

these transfer students.
The SUNY budget is larger than the budgets of 14 states, yet it has not kept pace with

inflation.

A more reasonable and rational way to deal with downfalls in revenue would be to have
tuition increases tied to the cost-of-living and inflation index so that students could have
a price locked in for the 4 years. There is some major dissatisfaction by faculty with
their administrators at three campuses.
The University Faculty Senate rotates the location of its tri-annual Plenary meetings among
the SUNY campuses. The Winter 2004 Plenary meeting was scheduled to be hosted by
the Old Westbury campus, but needed to be moved to the Oneonta campus when Old

Westbury’s administration refused to host the meeting. According to the University

Faculty Senate President, who on behalf of statewide governance took offense at this
refusal, this was the first time in SUNY’s history that a campus declined to host a

University Senate meeting.

Levin Institute — a new college was established by SUNY to honor Neil Levin, the

governor’s close friend and Director of the Port Authority, killed on September 11".

Established without consultation with university faculty, the Levin Institute as yet has no
campus or curriculum but a budget of three million dollars and a newly named
President, Garrick Utley. According to recently published brochures, Levin is to be a
premier institute for the study of global affairs and commerce, with a focus on
international business, finance, culture and language. The Chancellor is now committed

to faculty involvement with curriculum development, and would like to see full-time

SUNY faculty from various campuses serve as visiting professors at Levin. He
mentioned that New Paltz and Stony Brook were exploring possible partnerships with
Levin Institute. Old Westbury’s Senator was surprised that our campus was not
mentioned, given Old Westbury’s programs in business, finance, and comparative

humanities and language.

Awards Committee — a potential change in eligibility had been proposed that would require
the distinguished professor award to go only to those who had received earlier a
Chancellor’s award. This was perceived as having a negative impact on junior faculty,
and it has been dropped. Old Westbury’s Faculty University Awards Committee had

expressed its. opposition to the proposed change through correspondence transmitted by
its University Senator to the Awards Committee.

June 1 there is an instructional technology conference at Stony Brook.

Questions remain on having tuition increases locked in for four years. However it was agreed
to support idea of locking in tuition increases for SUNY campuses and for the
community colleges as well.
.
Old business

Sandy Kaufmann of the Retention Committee reported that 51% of Fall 2003 freshmen stated
that Old Westbury had been their 3

middle, and end of the year.

choice.

Surveys were conducted at the beginning,

Madeline Crocitto reported that an e-mail will be going: out to faculty for OSSD, relating to
preparation of the OSSD guidebook.
New business
The 96.6% approval by members of the four-year contract is the highest in union history.
There will be a picnic and general meeting, 12 -3 pm on May 19.
Health & Safety conference was successful with about 75 participants.

Announcement by Esther Gomez-Nieto — recital of piano & tenor at 7:30 pm.

Announcement that Pres. Butts’ report had to be cut because he has to be out of town this

afternoon.

Meeting was adjourned at 2:30 pm.