Faculty Senate Meeting Minutes
                          Friday, February 6, 2015

Senators Presents: Kathleen Velsor (Chair Presiding.), Fernando Guerrero
(Vice-Chair/ML), Robert Gero (Secretary/Treasurer/VA), Werner Sbaschnik
(Parliamentarian), Minna Barrett (University Senator), Kathie Greenberg
(Senator at-Large), Costas Hadjicharalambous (Senator At-Large), Lisa
Whitten (Senator At-Large), Caroline Sawyer (University Senator
Alternate/Senator At-Large), Nicole Sieben (Senator At-Large), Jon Kleinman
(Professional), Ana Martinez (Professional), Alonzo McCollum
(Professional), Laura Anker (First Year Experience), Curt Friehs (Library),
Jeffrey D’amico (Accounting), Carolina Bustamante (Adolescent Education),
Stephanie Schneider (Childhood Education), Laura Chipley (American
Studies), Michael Colaneri (Chemistry & Physics), Amara Graf (English),
Juan Galvis (H&P), Yogesh More (Math/CIS), Edislav Manetovic (PEL), Laura
Limonic (Sociology), Zenaida C(HLCC), Jacob Heller (FRR Committee).

Senators Absent: Vacant (At-Large Representative to EC.), Frank C. Ilozue
(SGA), Camilla Swasey (SGA), vacant (Student Gov’t. Assoc.), Shalei Simms
(MMF Dept.), Diana Sukhram (Exceptional Education), Manya Mascareno
(Biological Studies), Fred Millan (Psychology), Shijian Li (Public Health),
Chris Hobson (ARPT Com.), Cary Lange (CAP Committee), Alireza Ebrahimi
(TLRC).

Non-Voting Members of the Senate Present: Calvin Butts (President), Patrick
O’Sullivan (Provost/AVP),Michael Kinane (VP/Advancement),  Wayne Edwards
(VP Student Affairs), Anthony Barbera (Dean, SOB), Julio Gonzalez (Dean,
SOE).

Visitors Present: Duncan Quarless (Chemistry & Physics), (Gen Ed/AS Dept.),
Angel Lara (ML Dept.), Ashlee Lien (Psychology), Emma Antobam, Dinorah
Martinez (Recording)

   I. Call to Order: 12:37 pm

  II. Approval of minutes of November 14, 2014 and December 5, 2014
      Additions or changes to minutes- Anthony was not present. Approved.

 III. Chair’s Report

It is an exciting time because this year marks the 50th anniversary of Old
Westbury College.
Thanks to Albert G., for inspiring us to take action regarding the tragic
events at Ferguson. The faculty senate worked together with student
government and Suzanne  McLoughlin to hold a vigil last December, which was
covered on the OW TV spot.

The Executive Council was discussing the 50th anniversary last fall and
Laura Anker took our ideas to the committee. Today there will be
representatives from the committee, Zenaida Madurka and Mike Kinane, who
will share some of these plans with us.

 Barrett will report on the SUNY faculty senate meeting she and I attended
Jan. 23-6.

Thanks to the Executive Council for help responding to SUNY Excels.
1. Excels will allow us to pick the things that are mission critical to us
2. 5 priority areas: action, completion, success, inquiry, and engagement
3. Institutions will have different goals and be able to define their goals
(quantitatively and qualitatively)
4. Setting up targets is the next step. We need to define them and clarify
our communication about current and past performance and accountability.
5. Good faith and earnest evaluation of presidents. Chancellor confirmed
that the president’s review will be tied to the criteria we choose.
6. 10% of our campus allocation will be withheld until our report about
what we would like to have as the measures in the matrix is submitted.
I met with the Provost to discuss the matrix and we need to create targets
and decide what we think are important issues. We did the strategic plan
and we will do our performance assessment. Through shared governance we
will have a very strong voice.
Thanks to Werner for getting the ballots out and they are due next Fri. The
idea is that we will have the elections done before we leave for the
summer.

  IV. President’s Report
President was unable to attend.

   V. Provost’s Report
Happy New Year. We have exhausted the 2 make up days for Mon. We’ll accept
2-4 inches of snow before we cancel classes. We don’t want to put people at
risk but we will be more stringent.
We need to rethink student course evaluations. We need to put together a
small group of 5-7 people to rethink the alternatives. Should the
evaluations just be used to improve teaching or also used for
review/tenure?  I am going to distribute an article about student
evaluations from Liberal Education, and also an article from the New York
Times about educating the poor. The last item may be the most important-
the schedule for the fall. The undergraduate and graduate schedules are
new. The School of Business, School of Education, and Mental
health/Counseling, etc. were all consulted in making the schedule.
Hopefully the schedule will meet the students’ needs and more classes can
be offered during prime times. We will find out if this is workable or
creates too much bureaucracy. The committee on the schedule also
coordinated with transportation, facilities, student affairs, etc. The
Common hour is longer from 12-1pm. Another consideration was whether or not
faculty could teach 3 classes in a row and the answer is no. I advocate
against teaching 3 classes in a row.
We’ve met with various groups of faculty and we can recruit and bring in
more students but the major issue is retention. The focus going forward is
enrollment and retention and one of the things in academic affairs we are
discussing is tutoring- specifically in mathematics. Studies show if
students study diligently in math this diligence spills over into other
areas. They are discussing tutoring in the dormitories. We have to be
engaged in retention and student success in their studies and to signal to
the students that we care about their success.
Faculty Responses to the Provost’s Report:
Minna Barrett asked about the Carnegie units because we are shortening
class schedule by 20 min. per week per class and the Provost explained that
Ron Welton and Anthony Barbera did the math on this and were concerned
about this. But as Jacob Heller said this is not sacrosanct. We can change
how we manage the time. The Provost thought on a cost benefit basis we
shouldn’t worry about it. Minna Barrett asked if it could it become a
Middle States issue and Jacob explained that according to Middle States it
is not necessarily 50 min. per credit from a work place perspective. 50
min. is not just in class time – it can be study time etc. Anthony also
explained that Middle States is more concerned with whether or not an
instructor has covered the learning outcomes, which can be achieved with
outside readings, and online assignments, etc. You don’t have to meet face
to face, but we will have to document the process in place to ensure this
is happening.
Laura Anker stated that studies indicate small group work and face to face
time keeps people in school. When you’re cramming it in this is difficult
–especially with a movement towards a lecture base. Also she expressed
concern about commuting- early and late- especially for the first and
second year students.
In regards to the student evaluations Kathy Greenberg asked if student
evaluations could be more specific.

  VI. Old Business

   1. Caroline Sawyer’s GEC Report
She was elected in Oct. 2013 to replace Llana Barber and Mandy Frisken was
elected to take over as Chair in Fall 2014. The report was already
presented and approved last year.
Report includes: list of dates, proceedings, and courses approved for Gen
Ed designation. The primary purpose of the committee is to review these
courses. 7 were approved/accepted. Domain assessment: Western tradition was
reviewed based on materials from 2014. Domain reviews for Basic
Communication and American Experience done by May 2014 based on materials
from previous academic year. The By laws with respect to the GEC need
sorting out. SUNY mandated in 2000 that we have domains. SUNY seamless
transfer was our major initiative. We had to draft a response to SUNY
seamless transfer based on the memorandum to the presidents. There was much
discussion, town hall mtgs. Our committee sent a report to the senate that
was accepted. The Executive Council incorporated the GEC’s response into
its response in April, which was circulated to faculty in May 2014. Fall
2013 Duncan Quarless called on Caroline to put together an ad-hoc sub-
committee on seamless transfer which reported to the senate in spring 2014.
The GEC objected to the sub-committee’s recommendation to reduce the
required domains. It was important to make a distinction between the
categories required by SUNY vs. those required by OW. Dual designation
pushed. In the Summer 2014 the Provost indicated he would appoint a
director of Gen Ed. This would be an administrative position and the
director would put together a bulletin along with the GEC chair and
committee. The last time a bulletin was done was in Fall 2013 by Yumi
Nelson from advising. No new 3000-4000 courses were going to be considered
as new gen ed courses.
Lisa Whitten asked about ‘double dipping’ and Caroline clarified that dual
designation was the solution the faculty and GEC endorsed and the senate
accepted in order to reduce the credits to the possible 32. The sub-
committee suggested reducing the domains and this was definitively rejected
by faculty who wanted to instead promote dual designation of courses- which
was already in place when Caroline took over as chair. Dual designation has
been possible for some time and now it is encouraged as a means to meet the
requirements of seamless transfer for a credit reduction. Mandy Frisken as
current chair of GEC said they are encouraging faculty to review their
classes and see if they can be dual designated and/or propose a new lower
division course that has clearly specified the learning outcomes for both
domains for a dual designated course.
Duncan indicated that on the senate website the GEC report and
recommendations are on the bottom of pg. 3- 4.

   2. Report from 50th anniversary committee:  Zenaida Madurka. and Mike
      Kinane.
50th anniversary committee has 20 participants and many subcommittees.
We decided to go about planning the year-long celebration (beginning Feb.
12 2015- Nov. 10 2015) thematically based on the mission of the college. We
have a full agenda for the semester- everything that happens at the college
should be a celebration of the college so it will be promoted by the
centers and the 50th anniversary committee. We thought about tackling it by
decade then moved to the mission based idea. Mike Kinane is the co-chair of
the committee and they have a schedule and hope to print it next week. For
the anniversary we should consider what the college means and has
accomplished for the students in the past and going forward. We are
focusing on the theme of educational leadership and empowerment to create
students that are active engaged citizens. We had a good meeting last week
with well tenured faculty members about how to bring back Ameritus faculty
so they realize the importance of what they did and the foundation it
created. Thurs. in room 1000 there will be celebration. Hopefully going
forward we will start planning ahead. Next fall we will bring back former
faculty members and student alumni. Mike is most excited about this. They
put a budget proposal forward to Len Davis and the Pres. Butts. Sponsorship
dollars may be used for student scholarships but will also be needed to pay
for speakers’ travel fees etc. He suggested may be giving dept. money to go
out and do things locally- to do programs that relate to the history and
impact of the school. Three students will now be part of the committee and
we should ask students what they would like to see. He requested photos and
said they want to digitize them and have them available online.
Faculty Responses:
Minna Barrett suggested a visual time line and people could fill it in.
Maybe somehow we can make it permanent. She also raised the idea that we
shouldn’t back away from what we represent- don’t white wash it. We
shouldn’t be ashamed or frightened of it. Lisa Whitten reinforced this
saying that we should emphasize the diversity and social justice of our
mission- it’s more powerful than the word empowerment that the committee is
using. Mike didn’t disagree but he’s thinking about how to present it and
say it. People define the term social justice differently. He acknowledged
it is white washing it. He said we should define ourselves and put it out
otherwise people can also interpret the word empowerment however they want.
Julio stated that we need to move to concrete things- we need to show these
abstract concepts in concrete terms. We don’t have a set title because we
don’t have all the events set. The title frames the cognition. Laura Anker
said that we should state “educational empowerment for a more just and
sustainable world”- that’s the exact wording from our mission statement.
 VII. New Business

   1. Minna Barrett’s Report:
SUNY Excels: the breakdown for the indices of the achievement measurements
for success went from 200 down to 17, but we can’t distribute them until we
review this. Although it seems friendlier it also seems like it will be
punitive. We will be able to frame the way we assess it but we need to work
to assess what we do that has real value in the SUNY system and the way
they assess what value is.
The Chief officer for diversity gave a talk and there is a push around the
state for diversity- how to define and measure what diversity is and how
campuses achieve this. The Governor’s budget cuts out what we think is
important-for example it slashes the EOP program in arts and science and OW
has one of the largest EOP programs in the state. The governor wants to
increase support for retention and graduation rates and wants diversity but
is cutting money for EOP and step programs and we also have one of the
largest step programs. Univ. hospitals have been given no money from local
govt. to go into low income areas. Do you want campuses to initiate a
referendum from the bottom up that challenges this budget? The Fed
government is considering shutting down NSF national science foundation.
Educational pipe line – Community colleges are being tapped to be hubs for
the common core. OW was involved in the program in the early college high
schools through smart scholars. Farmingdale was tagged as the most
important in smart scholars with a retention rate 98%.
In banner students are identified as high school or honors college or
regular students. There are courses for high school students to allow them
to attain college credits. The Roosevelt schools have many high school
students involved. We offer Spanish for native speakers for students from
East Hampton high school and we will also offer the FYE courses at East
Hampton, Roosevelt and Hempstead. We discount our courses significantly at
high schools. It can be a way to get students to go to college. The
Chancellor wants to power these programs up in the state and wants the
state schools to do this. The Governor wants to focus on teacher assessment
so how can we power this up without additional money?
7 colleges across the state are hubs for common core. The Chancellor wants
all state university campuses to be hubs for common core. We need to study
how students will change if they are stronger in the common core.
The Governor wants every student in the SUNY system to have experiential
education. We are strong in this. There is a task force and the Executive
Council is discussing sending Laura Anker as OW’s rep on this task force.
Minna Barrett will ask Lorrie Morris from Psychology to also serve.
Governor threatens 10% reduction in funding if campuses don’t submit report
on SUNY excels on time or if they reject it you lose 10% until it is
approved. The UFS president – Peter has approached us about hosting a
meeting. There may be money to assist with this.
Of the comprehensive college sector- 13 of us- fairly universally- our
departments of Education are suffering both in Masters and undergrad
programs. Brockport didn’t hit enrollment and New Paltz is in jeopardy. We
are doing ok- but retention is an issue. Amer. Studies, history and bio are
increasing majors. One of the issues in retention is adjuncts because they
don’t have to have office hrs. etc. which impacts the quality of the
education for students. Gen ed committees across the sector indicate
challenges in restructuring their gen ed programs to meet the state
standards because the push is to erode the gen ed programs in lib. Arts.

   2. Introduction to new Library Faculty (Curt Friehs)

Emma Antobam was introduced as a new administrator at the library
circulation coming from Bronx community college.

VIII. Adjournment at 2:11. Feb. 27 full faculty mtg.